Query_Id	Query	Doc_id	Title	Content
1006895	which chinese dynasty was known as the first civilization	D660527	Ancient Chinese civilization	Ancient Chinese civilization Contents Timeline Location Origin: legends Origin: archaeology Historical overview Further Study History Atlas: Maps of Ancient China Timeline of Ancient Chinese History1766 BCE: traditional date for the founding of the first historic dynasty in China, the Shang dynasty1122 BCE: Western Zhou dynasty founded after the overthrow of the last Shang king771 BCE: Eastern Zhou dynasty period begins after the sack of the Western Zhou capital; the first phase is traditionally divided into two: the Spring and Autumn (771-481 BCE) and the Warring States (481-221 BCE) periods551-479 BCE: Confucius, China’s preeminent philosopher, lives221 BCE: The First Emperor, Qin Shih Huang, completes the conquest of all other Chinese states202 BCE: The Han dynasty founded, after several years of chaos following the fall of the Qin220 CE: the fall of the Han dynasty is a convenient marker for the end point of the ancient period of Chinese history. The location of ancient Chinese civilization China is a vast country with a huge range of terrains and climates within it. As well as the country’s sheer size, geographical features such as mountain ranges, deserts and coastlands have all helped shape Chinese history. Above all, the great river systems of China, the Yellow River to the north and the Yangtze to the south, which have given Chinese civilization its distinctive character. The Yellow River region The civilization of ancient China first developed in the Yellow River region of northern China, in the 3rd and 2nd millennia BCE. A large part of this area is covered by loess soil. This very fine earth has blown in from the highlands of central Asia over thousands of years, and makes one of the most fertile soils in the world. In ancient times, the main crop in northern China was millet, a highly nutritious food still grown in many parts of the world as a major crop. The Yangtze Valley region To the south, the great Yangtze valley, with its warm, wet climate, was the first area in the world where rice was grown, sometime before 5000 BCE. From this region rice cultivation spread far and wide across southern China and into south-east Asia. Rice is one of the most nutritious plants known to humans – three or four times as nutritious as wheat. This means that, other things being equal, a much larger number of people can be supported from the same area of land with a rice crop than with a wheat crop. Between the rivers Away from the great river valleys, hills, forests and swamplands covered much of China at this time. These would later be covered by dense populations of farmers, but in ancient times these regions were home to many small groups of people who practised some farming, but who also hunted animals and gathered plants for a living. The hilly or swampy landscapes of these regions were not really suited for intensive farming; it would not be until pressure of population elsewhere encouraged landowners and peasants to make the investment needed to prepare the land sufficiently for cultivation. This would involve clearing forests, terracing hillsides and draining lakes and marshes. The Steppes To the north and west of the Yellow River region are the wide plains of central Asia. Here, the harsh deserts and dry grasslands are unsuitable for growing crops, and the inhabitants’ traditional economy has been based on pastoralism. Although this landscape has not been able to support a large population, the people’s nomadic lifestyle has made them inured to the dangers and hardships of war, and throughout China’s history, starting early in the ancient period, the Chinese have faced recurrent threats from this quarter. Farming was possible in central Asia only in the scattered oases. From an early date, these hosted villages which were in contact with one another, in a chain covering thousands of miles across Asia, right to the Middle East and beyond (what would much later be called the “Silk Road”). Along this chain, luxury goods were exchanged and new techniques learned about. Modern scholars believe that skills in working with metals, and in particular, making bronze objects, came to China from the Middle East via this route. The Cradle of Chinese Civilization The Yellow River region is regarded as the Cradle of Chinese Civilization. It was here that the earliest Chinese dynasties were based. Indeed, throughout the ancient period of China’s history it was the Yellow River region which formed the heart of the Chinese world, and it was from here that Chinese civilization spread out into adjacent areas, including the Yangtze region. By the end of the Han dynasty, the final chapter of ancient Chinese history, all of modern China except the outlying regions of Tibet, Xinjiang, most of the northeast (what was Manchuria) and parts of Yunnan in the south-west had been more or less incorporated into the world of Chinese civilization. Faithful photographic reproduction of Goazu, Founder of the Han Dynasty The Origins of Ancient China: the legends The Xia Dynasty (2070 BCE – 1600 BCE) is the first dynasty in China to be described in ancient historical chronicles. The Records of the Grand Historian and the Classic of Rites say that Yu the Great, the founder of the Xia dynasty, was the grandson of Zhuanxu, one of the legendary “Five Emperors” who were the first rulers of China. Yu was successful in stopping devastating floods and increased the produce from farming (since the floods usually destroyed the crops), and the Xia tribe’s influence strengthened. He was made the leader of the surrounding tribes, and soon afterwards was sent with an army to suppress a tribe which was causing trouble on the kingdom’s borders. He won a great victory, which further strengthened his power. Shun, the last of the “Five Emperors”, was getting old, and abdicated the throne in favor of Yu, whom he deemed worthy. Yu’s succession as the king marked the start of the Xia dynasty. Shortly before his death, instead of passing power to the person deemed most capable to rule (as had been the case in the past), Yu passed power to his son, setting the precedence for dynastic rule. The Origins of Ancient China: the archaeological evidence Prior to the coming of cities and literacy (the hallmarks of Ancient Chinese civilization) major Stone Age farming cultures had grown up in China since the 7th millennium BCE. One was located in the Yellow River region, the other in the Yangtze region. In the Yangtze, an agriculture based on rice cultivation had developed, whilst in the north, the Yellow River region, millet was the main crop. The Yellow River region The Yellow River region was the setting for the emergence of Chinese civilization into the light of history. A large area of northern China is covered by loess. This very fine earth has blown in from the highlands of central Asia over thousands of years, and makes one of the most fertile soils in the world. In ancient times, the main crop in northern China was millet, a highly nutritious food still grown in many parts of the world as a major crop. Based on this staple, a flourishing Stone Age agriculture developed. By c. 4000 BCE, walled and moated towns had appeared. They continued to grow in size. In the Yellow River region, what looks very much like primitive Chinese characters had also appeared, inscribed on pottery. These characters became more complex as time went by. Other technical advances included the introduction of the potter’s wheel (sometime after c. 3500 BCE), and the production of high quality jade ornaments (after c. 2500 BCE). Finds of luxury grave goods and the remains of large and complex buildings show that a wealthy ruling elite stood out from the population at large. Metallurgy reached China sometime around 2500 BCE, almost certainly from the Middle East via central Asia. At first this was restricted to copper work, but by c. 1800 BCE, knowledge of bronze casting had entered the Yellow River Valley. At around the same time there was a dramatic increase in the size and density of some walled towns in that region, the earliest-known cities in East Asia. By this date the Yellow River region had in fact seen the appearance of a fully urban, literate, Bronze Age civilization, and ancient China finally emerges into the full light of history under the first of its historic dynasties, the Shang. Historical overview of Ancient China Most of the history of Chinese civilization, including the ancient period, has traditionally been divided into dynasties. A dynasty is a line of kings or emperors from a single family, following each other on the throne from generation to generation. In Chinese history (in contrast to European history) the succession was, in the overwhelming majority of cases, from father to son. This was because, due to the dictates of ancestor worship, it was a ruler’s overriding responsibility to produce a male heir. Not to have done so would have been unthinkable. At times throughout Chinese history, the huge country has been united under a single emperor. At other times, several competing dynasties have divided the country between them. It is only the ones who have ruled the entire country, however, which have been accorded true legitimacy by Chinese historians. The situation in ancient China was slightly different, in that for much of the ancient period what would later be known as “Chinese civilization” was only gradually spreading across the area which today we know as “China”. Thus the early dynastic rulers of China are known as kings, rather than emperors. It is only after the time of the First Emperor, Qin Shih Huang, who reigned over a united China from 221 BCE, that the imperial period of Chinese history began. Qin Shi Huang, the first emperor of China The early dynasties of ancient China Archaeologists have uncovered urban sites, bronze implements, and tombs that point to the possible existence of the semi-legendary Xia Dynasty at locations cited in ancient Chinese historical texts. In 1959, a site located in the city of Yanshi was excavated containing large palaces which some archaeologists have identified as the capital of the Xia dynasty. Unlike the oracle bones of the Shang dynasty, there are no written records from the period to help confirm the Xia dynasty’s existence. Oracle Bones Found, Dating from the Shang Dynasty Through the 1960s and 1970s, archaeologists have continued to uncovered urban sites, bronze implements, and tombs at locations linked to the Xia in ancient Chinese historical texts. At a minimum, the Xia dynasty seems to have marked an evolutionary stage between the late neolithic cultures and the later Chinese urban civilization of the Shang dynasty. The Shang dynasty period saw further strides in material culture, and some of the finest bronzes in world history were produced by Chinese craftsmen of the period. In due course, the Shang dynasty was succeeded by a new line of kings, of the Zhou dynasty. A Western Zhou bronze gui vessel. Reproduced under Creative Commons license 3.0Under the early Zhou (or “Western Zhou”) the cultural and political reach of ancient Chinese civilization expanded enormously. This, however, resulted in fragmentation. The authority of the Zhou kings declined, and the later Zhou (or “ Eastern Zhou “) dynasty period was characterised by warfare between increasingly large and powerful regional states. The later Zhou period was not one of simple destruction. Important innovations began to emerge which were to characterise Chinese civilization throughout most of its history, not just in the ancient period. It was a time of great intellectual ferment, with rival schools of thought competing with one another. Amongst these was Confucianism, which would in due course become the supreme ideology in successive Chinese dynasties. Other schools of thought, particularly Daoism and Legalism, would also directly or indirectly influence later ages. This was also the period in which the roots of that distinctly Chinese style of government, characterised by officials chosen on the basis of intellectual merit, can be traced. The imperial dynasties of ancient China The various cultural and social strands were developed in the final phase of ancient China’s history. This was characterised by the rise of strong, centralised states which unified the Chinese cultural area under a single imperial dynasty. The Qin dynasty emerged as the first unifiers of ancient China from the constant warfare between the different regional states of the late Zhou period. The Qin was a short-lived dynasty, brought down by regional forces which it had failed to tame and by a peasantry which it had ruthlessly exploited. The next of these unifying dynasties, however, would rule China for some 400 years. This was the Han dynasty, arguably the most important of all China’s dynasties. Under the Han emperors the Chinese became so used to being ruled as a single nation that to this day they call themselves the Han people. It was under the Han that Confucianism triumphed over all the competing schools of thought which had emerged in the later Zhou period to become the ruling ideology of China. An empire-wide bureaucracy, staffed to a large extent by officials recruited and promoted on merit, and imbued with Confucian thought, came to govern China. Closely linked to this, the roots of the exam system by which officials were recruited can to traced back to this period. The end of ancient China The Han dynasty lasted until 220 CE, when it broke up into several successor states. This opened a period of weakness for China, when no single dynasty was able to establish its rule over the whole country, and when barbarian peoples from surrounding regions were able to found a multitude of states within China. This was a dark period in Chinese history, but by no means as dark as the period which followed the collapse of the western Roman empire in Europe. Society was disrupted, trade declined and many cities shrank, but even in barbarian-occupied areas administration staffed by Confucian-educated officials continued to govern, and Chinese civilization continued largely as before. Within just a few centuries new dynasties would arise to once again rule China as a single empire. Further Study The evolution of state institutions in Ancient China The economy of Ancient China Society in Ancient China Thought and culture in Ancient China Sources and further reading on Ancient China To view maps charting the rise and fall of Ancient Chinese dynasties, go to our Time Map of World History pages on Ancient China
1012020	which is the deepest swimming pool in the world?	D2263610	Surprises lurk in Y-40, the deepest swimming pool in the world	Divers check out the Y-40, the deepest swimming pool in the world. Picture: Piero Mescalchiny/Y-40/Caters News Source: Caters News Agency IF YOU’RE the type that always heads straight for the deep end, then these amazing snaps showing the world’s deepest swimming pool is right up your street. The Y-40, also known as The Deep Joy, is the incredible swimming pool near Venice in Italy, that has a variety of depths — the deepest is a maximum of 40m. It is even heated at temperatures between of 32 to 34C so you can dive in just your normal swimming costume rather than having to wear a wetsuit. The Sun reports the seemingly bottomless pool, which features four underwater caves, broke the Guinness World Record for the deepest pool ever for diving. Two swimmers descend into the deepest part of the pool. Picture: Rino Sgorbani/Caters News Source: Caters News Agency Situated inside Hotel Millepini Terme in Montegrotto Terme, it was designed for leisure dives, dive training and of course photo shoots. It even has ledges and underwater glass viewing panels for those who don’t want to get wet. A night dive in the record-breaking pool. Picture: Marco Mancini/Y-40/Caters News Source: Caters News Agency Adventurous underwater photographer Rino Sgorbani, from Italy, decided to tackle the tricky dive and plunge down to the depths of the pool. Describing the experience, the 65-year-old said: “In the shallower part it felt like a normal pool.“The deepest part is like an immersion into the sea depth, but with water as hot as the Caribbean. It was a nice experience and it was exciting.”The pool features four underwater caves. Picture: Rino Sgorbani/Y-40/Caters News Source: Caters News Agency The pool, which first opened in 2014, was designed by architect Emanuele Boaretto with the support of Boaretto Group Hotel & Resort, and has a range of underwater activities. Emanuele said: “Y-40 is the only pool so deep with thermal water: a particularity that cannot to be moved anywhere. The Deep Joy mermaid An observation tunnel that people can walk through to view the pool underwater. Picture: Rino Sgorbani/Caters News Source: Caters News Agency“Our ambition is to open a new job perspective in medium and long period, to guarantee prosperity also to our land and our society.”The Guinness World Records for the deepest swimming pool was previously held by the Nemo 33 pool in Brussels, Belgium, with a maximum depth of 34.4m. A diagram of the Y-40 pool. Picture: Y-40/Caters News Source: Caters News Agency This article originally appeared in The Sun and was reproduced with permission.
1026061	who designed cardiff millenium stadium	D1931891	Millennium Stadium, Wales	"Millennium Stadium, Wales Share Location Cardiff, Wales Client Millennium Stadium Plc., a subsidiary of Welsh Rugby Union (WRU) and Cardiff County Council Architect Populous Contractor Laing Civil Engineering Expand The seating is divided into three tiers with seven levels. Image courtesy of Alan. The Millennium Stadium is presently the National Stadium of Wales. Image courtesy of Andrew King. The Millennium Stadium has a 74,500 capacity. Image courtesy of Alan. Front view of the Millennium Stadium. The stadium is coloured in Orion, Poppy Red, Aquarius and Pegasus, similar to the British national flag. Image courtesy of Nick Smith. The stadium was built to host the 1999 Rugby World Cup. Image courtesy of Mooganic. The seating is divided into three tiers with seven levels. Image courtesy of Alan. The Millennium Stadium is presently the National Stadium of Wales. Image courtesy of Andrew King.12345The Millennium Stadium is located in Cardiff, the capital city of Wales. The stadium, constructed on a site previously occupied by National Stadium of Wales, was built to host the 1999 Rugby World Cup with Wales as the main host of the event. The stadium also hosts international football matches, concerts and other entertainment. The stadium is owned by Millennium Stadium Plc, which is a subsidiary of Welsh Rugby Union and the Cardiff County Council, was designed by Bligh Lobb Sports Architecture (now known as Populous). It is the home stadium of the Wales National Rugby Union Team. The Millennium Stadium was built at a cost of $194.7m. The open retractable roof is perhaps the most significant feature of the stadium, and it is the largest and first of its kind in the United Kingdom. Millennium Stadium design""The open retractable roof is perhaps the most significant feature of the stadium, and it is the largest and first of its kind in the United Kingdom. ""The stadium covers an area of 40,000m² (430,556ft²), with a total bowl volume of 1.5 million cubic metres (52.9 million ft3). The main bowl of the stadium is placed at an angle of 90° in the north-south direction. The pitch measures 120mx79m, with a playing area of 9,480m² (102,041ft²). It is made of 7,412 pallets allowing the grass cover of the pitch to be removed during non-sporting events. The stadium is divided into four stands, known as the North, East (Westgate Street), West and South stands. The total seating capacity of the stadium is 74,500, with the seating divided into three tiers with seven levels. The upper tier can accommodate 33,000 spectators, the middle 18,000 and pitch-side tier can fit 23,500. The middle tier has the club, corporate seating and hospitality boxes. Each seating block has rows that are numbered in ascending order starting from the lower block. The lower tier comprises 28 rows, the middle tier 15 rows, the upper tier of the east, west and south stands have 33 rows while the north stand has 37 rows. Millennium Stadium retractable roof The total roof cover measures 223m long and is supported by cables attached to four 93m-tall pylons. The pylons comprise two 220m main steel trusses crossed over by five lateral trusses on each section of the retractable roof. The two 500t retractable roof sections, pulled by winch cables, take 20 minutes to move along the rails. The total area of the perimeter canopy ring is 27,000m² (290,625ft²). Related project Wembley Stadium, London, United Kingdom The new Wembley Stadium opened to the public on 9 March 2007. The all-seat stadium is owned by the Football Association (FA) and operated by its subsidiary Wembley National Stadium Ltd (WNSL). The fixed roof placed underneath the retractable roof comprises galvanised steel purlins that surround the entire perimeter. The purlins form the second supporting layer, while a 120m Kal-Deck aluminium tray, which is perforated for acoustic purposes, forms the diaphragm on which the fixed roof is placed. The deck’s tray trough is packed with Rockwool RW3 acoustic semi-rigid boards. A Cape Pyrok high-density board measuring 30mm protects the vapour control membrane and supports the Rockwool insulation layer. The cladding consists of aluminium sheets covered with a layer of plaster, forming an interlocking system. 170mm L-section cleat bridges fill the gap between the aluminium tray and the outer layer. The fixed and moving sections of the roof are separated by an upstand that complements the Kal-Zip 400 sheets. The flashing allows movement between the roofs. Millennium Stadium architecture The wall Cladding covers an area of 8,000m² (86,111ft²) and is coloured similar to the British national flag, in Orion, Poppy Red, Aquarius and Pegasus. Facilities of the Millennium Stadium The stadium user accommodation is divided into six levels, which include food and drinks, a sports museum, childcare facilities, shops and toilets. There are 124 hospitality suites, seven hospitality lounges, 15 restaurants and 27 bars, all of which have disabled access. The stadium is equipped with all the appropriate safety measures to tackle emergencies. ""The stadium user accommodation is divided into six levels, which include food and drinks, a sports museum, childcare facilities, shops and toilets. ""Millennium Stadium construction materials The stadium’s construction required the use of 440,000t of concrete, 12,000t of structural steel, 4,000t of steel reinforcement, 34,000m² (365,972ft²) of blockwork, 13,500 foundation piles and aluminium wall cladding. Project contractors for the Millennium Stadium The main contractor of the project was Laing Civil Engineering, while WS Atkins was the structural engineer. The retractable roof was constructed by Kelsey Roofing Industries, with Cimolai of Italy providing the stand frames and roof components and Freyssinet designing the roof’s stay cable systems. Kingspan provided the flat wall cladding. Most Read Dutch Mountains: a circular revolution in the world’s largest wooden building Pw C VR experience showcases disruptive technologies to businesses3D printing used to produce metallic glass alloys Scientists develop cheap and 3D-printable smart glass prototype Futurist predicts holistic and affordable renewable future Related Companies Dow Corning "
1030518	who is bethany hamilton's husband	D2166817	Baby joy for shark attack survivor Bethany Hamilton: Pro-surfer and husband share first picture of newborn son	"Baby joy for shark attack survivor Bethany Hamilton: Pro-surfer and husband share first picture of newborn son By Dailymail.com Reporter Published: 16:31 EDT, 15 June 2015 | Updated: 02:32 EDT, 16 June 201514kshares200View comments Inspirational pro-surfer Bethany Hamilton has welcomed a baby boy. The 25-year-old and husband Adam Dirks announced the news on Twitter and shared a first picture of the baby with fans. 'Blessed to welcome our son, Tobias, into the world! #stokedmomma,' she captioned it. The couple gaze adoringly at the newborn while Bethany cradles him in the sweet family portrait. Scroll down for video+9Baby joy: Bethany Hamilton and husband Adam Dirks shared this family portrait after announcing the birth of son Tobias Bethany, who became a global inspiration aged 13 when she climbed back on her surfboard after the brutal 2003 shark attack, revealed in February that she was having her first child with Adam. The pair, who married in August 2013, informed fans about their unborn son with a pre-recorded interview from their home in Kauai. She put her board away temporarily in the latter stages of her pregnancy but stayed active with ocean swims and hikes.+9Athlete: Bethany, pictured here in May, stayed active during her pregnancy with ocean swims+9Fur babies: The 25-year-old and her husband also have two dogs On April 24, Bethany posted a photo on Instagram of herself cradling her bump on the top of a hill, with the sun shining brightly behind her. She captioned the image: 'Morning hike with baby boy! #33weeks. 'Meanwhile, on May 2, she uploaded a picture of her and her bump surfing on a long board, writing: 'Cruisin #Surfs Like AGirl #pregnantandsurfing @lieberfilms', in reference to the bipoic she is filming. And in another post, Bethany remarked of her pregnancy: 'My favorite thing about being pregnant is feeling my lil guy move inside of me. It's so strange yet the best feeling... #35weeks'. But despite her determination to spend time outdoors, Bethany admitted she found it more and more difficult to walk up stairs. She recently said she was 'putting the short board away for a while'.+9'Mermaid momma': Bethany became an inspiration worldwide aged 13 when she climbed back on her surfboard after the brutal 2003 shark attack. Above, she is pictured lying down underwater in another Instagram shot Surfer Bethany Hamilton announces her pregnancy in 2015Loaded Progress 0:00/0:00Last year, Bethany and Adam competed in season 25 of The Amazing Race - a show which sees eleven teams of two race around the world in a bid to win $1million. They came in third place. In the interview in which the couple revealed they were expecting a baby, which was 'liked' online 98,000 times, Bethany said: 'In baby terms I'm about 22 weeks, which is about halfway there. 'It's been a pretty crazy last four months finding out that we're going to be parents. Life's kind of going to be changing and kind of just started to prep for bringing a new little being into the world. '+9Sunset: In a post at 35 weeks, Bethany remarked of her pregnancy: 'My favorite thing about being pregnant is feeling my lil guy move inside of me. It's so strange yet the best feeling...'Pro-surfer Bethany Hamilton shreds on a board in Bali Loaded Progress 0:00/0:00'It's really exciting. I've been surfing through my whole pregnancy. I plan to surf as long as I can. 'Bethany admitted that her missing arm could prove challenging when it comes to her baby boy. 'Motherhood with one arm, I kind of think about it. I kind of forget I have one arm, a squirming baby and changing diapers and just me could be really challenging,' she said. 'But I think how I live life now. I just adjust and adapt to different things and I'll find my own ways to take care of the baby. 'At just 13, Bethany lost her arm - and a shocking 60 per cent of the blood in her body - when she was attacked by a shark while surfing off the coast of Kauai. Incredibly, she survived the attack. In later interviews, she revealed she did not feel pain as her family rushed her to hospital. Despite her injuries, Bethany did not give up on her surfing dreams, and began competing professionally four years later in 2007. In 2010, she was the 20th ranked woman among surfers.+9Baby on board! : Aged 13, Bethany (pictured) lost her arm - and 60 per cent of the blood in her body - when she was attacked by a shark while surfing off the coast of Kauai. Incredibly, she survived the attack+9Revelation: In February, Bethany and Adam, who married in August 2013, informed fans they were expecting a baby with a pre-recorded interview (pictured) from their Kauai home. The interview was 'liked' 98,000 times Bethany's experience became an inspiration to many after she wrote about it in the book, Soul Surfer: A True Story of Faith, Family, and Fighting to Get Back on the Board. The book was made into a movie with Dennis Quaid and Carrie Underwood in 2011. Actress Anna Sophia Robb portrayed Bethany, but the surfer did all of her one-armed stunts. Bethany, who cites her Christian faith as one of her biggest inspirations to pursuing her surfing career, is also a motivational speaker. She regularly tours the country to tell her amazing story. Her Christian youth minister husband also shares her religious beliefs. The surfer is currently filming the bipoic, 'Surfs Like A Girl', with filmmaker Aaron Lieber.+9Active: Last year, Bethany and Adam competed in season 25 of The Amazing Race - a show which features eleven teams of two in a race around the world to win $1million. The couple (pictured) came in third place+9Fearless: Bethany is pictured on her surfboard competing at the ISA Lost Energy Drink World Surfing Games in 2006 - three years after she nearly died when she was attacked by a shark while surfing with her family Advertisement Share or comment on this article14kshares Most watched News videos Embed this Heart-warming moment stolen French bulldog is reunited with family Man removes floral tributes to burglar killed by OAP in... Shocking CCTV shows man crashing his car before running off Video of attack may be linked to middle school 'fight club'Shocking moment 13-year-old is brutally attacked by two girls Shocking moment road rage driver swerves and runs down biker Dreadful footage shows moment before dog is cruelly killed... Thieves loot £1.4 million mansion as family are held hostage Psycho dubbed the 'Brooklyn Ripper' is found guilty of... Boy, three, has an arm ripped off when he climbs into... Ouch! Prankster decides to slice a spray can in half with... A terrace with a BMW out the front and kids' shoes on the... Tony Blair and his son Euan are linked to secret plans... ‘Absolute idiot’ Irishman and ‘screw-up’ Briton admit... PICTURED: American tourists killed in Ireland horse buggy... Donald Tusk says he is 'furious' about Brexit and brands... Brewery removes 'sexist, distasteful' pub adverts showing... Get your hands back on the wheel! The moment a... Soft play centre owner calls mother a 'pathetic excuse of... 'I've forgiven Oscar for killing my daughter': Reeva... 'I tried to tell myself he was on a business trip and... 'Never seen Apple notify people': Mark Zuckerberg's open... Rape victim who suffered the worst internal injuries her... Highest earning TV drama actress Ellen Pompeo reveals the... Driver, 23, is found guilty of racing alongside Honda... New Zealand PM Jacinda Ardern admits her country IS... MOST READ NEWSPrevious Next● ● ● ●Comments 200Share what you think Newest Oldest Best rated Worst rated View all The comments below have not been moderated. Pasha, Beverly Hills, United States, 2 years ago I loved Bethany & Adam on The Amazing Race. They were so sweet, I was hoping they'd win because of their kindness. Congratulations on their new son!018Click to rate Salty Old Dog, Houston, United States, 2 years ago She is an inspiration to all!028Click to ratestevematthews, Rutland, United States, 2 years ago The washingtonpost has an article on the animals that are most likely to kill you. Sharks are number 10. The only things that are significantly more deadly than sharks are deer because of car accidents and bees because of allergic reactions.112Click to rate Jimm Shorts, Hooterville, United States, 2 years ago Dude is ripped... I need to get to the gym, pronto...214Click to ratew_endi1, london, United Kingdom, 2 years agowow there are so many thoughtless idiots on here , who on top of that, aspire to be funny! you know what would be funnier? watching them get up on a surf board, in an ocean and surf! i would pay to see these idiots do that!611Click to ratetruthteller111, madison, United States, 2 years agodon't get it. in that one pic where she is still pregnant, she has a big birthmark, yet she hasn't given birth yet?503Click to rate Smile Where Ever You Are, Brisbane, Australia, 2 years ago Maybe you should goggle what birth mark is? Hello it's a mark that you have when you're born, to learn more type his into Google: When do you get a birth mark?38Click to rate Jennifer Morales, Forks, United States, 2 years ago I'm so happy for them, they are a beautiful family. and to the comment above that breaks my heart who said that about her having one arm, it does not matter, if you have two arms, one arm, or no arms there are so many different ways to show intimacy and Bethany is an amazing person, she did not let that get her down, she kept doing the things she loves and enjoys in life, and now has a beautiful family. I'm so happy for all 3 of them, I know she will be amazing mom. Much Love to you and your family <3328Click to ratestevematthews, Rutland, United States, 2 years ago It is no wonder she is lthe eading advocate for purging our oceans of sharks. She has every right to feel the way she does and I hope we will carry out her will. End the reign of terror by the wolves of the sea.409Click to rate2 of 4 replies See all repliesstevematthews, Rutland, United States, 2 years ago I love these ""humans"" who are ok with little children being eaten on a day at the beach. You check your humanity at the door when you become a greenie.296Click to ratesobergilmore, Minneapolis, United States, 2 years agowtf?? She has never said she wants to purge the oceans of sharks. Why are you making stuff up? ?441Click to rate Dave Ninetynine, Yorkshire, United Kingdom, 2 years ago Congratulations and all that, but..... Who are you and why are you in a British newspaper? No offence, but losing an arm to a wild animal attack hardly qualifies you as being famous, does it!696Click to rate2 of 4 replies See all repliesdhanzee, Jakarta, Indonesia, 2 years agobecause she is so inspiring. you should read more about her story. also, if you saw her in The Amazing Race last year, you would know why that woman is amazing. she did difficult tasks in that race with only one hand, and even finished in 3rd place with her partner.450Click to rate Dave Ninetynine, Yorkshire, United Kingdom, 2 years ago People don't read the DM for inspiration, so that's a non-starter of an excuse as to why this woman's a main story. Also Captain Quint - was the ""movie"" an Aussie made-for-tv pile of junk by any chance? I only ask because a quick straw poll around here gives a solid zero percent to the question, ""anyone heard of this woman or her movie? ""123Click to ratea.j, southampton, 2 years ago I like pics like this...there's no arm in it.7713Click to rate View all The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of Mail Online. We are no longer accepting comments on this article. More top stories Site Web Advertisement Like Daily Mail+1Daily Mail Follow@Daily Mail Follow Daily Mail Follow@Femail Follow Daily Mail Femail Today Tristan Thompson is booed and jeered during Cavaliers game as he makes first appearance since claims he was brazenly cheating on pregnant Khloe Khloe Kardashian's family 'thinks she will go into labor at any second... and want her to leave boyfriend Tristan Thompson amid cheating scandal'Emily Ratajkowski leaves nothing to the imagination in see-through coat as... hints at 'sneak peek' Wasn't being shy on social media Pregnant Khloe Kardashian suffers another blow as woman who posted alleged sex tape with Tristan Thompson claims to be PREGNANTWoman seen making out with Tristan Thompson at DC hookah lounge in October said she had no idea Khloe Kardashian was pregnant'Do what you have to do': Andre hands Lucious a GUN as he confesses to planting the car bomb that nearly killed his father in new Empire episode Sponsored Brooke Burke, 46, poses in bikini and talks 'stepping out of comfort zone' post Dave Charvet split The 46-year-old opens up about marriage'Upset' Lamar Odom 'would absolutely get back together with Khloe Kardashian' after Tristan Thompson cheating scandal Said to be 'terribly upset'Carson Kressley and Thom Filicia returning to Bravo for new show more than 10 years after Queer Eye Will reunite for a new home design series Trapped with Tristan: Khloe 'wants to get the hell out' of love nest she shares with NBA star but is stuck in Cleveland because she is too pregnant to fly Hilary Swank admits she's been called a b***h after fans mistakenly thought she was Jennifer Garner She gets mistaken for Jennifer Garner Advertisement Keeping casual! Selma Blair goes braless in a thin white tank top while out grabbing coffee in Los Angeles Paired tank top with linen capris Roseanne actress Emma Kenney, 18, reveals she is seeking treatment for her 'bad behavior' Admits she was 'running with a really fast crowd'Piers Morgan claims Khloe Kardashian should have seen Tristan Thompson's unfaithfulness coming Shared his views on the pregnant KUWTK star Eiza Gonzalez goes braless in skimpy white halter top as she flaunts her toned tummy in Los Angeles Recently returned from filming in Barcelona Martha Stewart, 76, announced as the newest judge on Food Network's hit series Chopped She will be joining the cast Khloe Kardashian is 'having early contractions after seeing video of Tristan Thompson cheating and her family are flying in to be by her side'Kylie Jenner plugs LIPSTICK and flaunts her BUTT while sister Khloe Kardashian is living a 'nightmare' after Tristan 'cheats' Business as usual Cuba Gooding Jr. celebrates his debut performance in Chicago before heading to star-studded after-party Oscar-winning actor was every inch the superstar Katie Holmes bites into a 500 calorie cupcake while holding ANOTHER one in her hand after wrapping project She's definitely deserved the treats Brad Pitt 'is happier and more charming' after Angelina Jolie split as he moves on to Neri Oxman Year and a half since him and Angelina called it quits Advertisement Still on! Justin Bieber's rumored new squeeze Baskin Champion flashes midriff as she arrives at singer's home in LA Showed off her tummy'She says her skin crawls when I touch her': Married at First Sight star reveals wife who refuses to have sex verbally ABUSES him off-camera Kevin Spacey sexual assault case from 1992 is now under review by Los Angeles prosecutors Man alleges that Spacey sexually assaulted him Jesse Williams' estranged wife is asking for more money in ongoing child support battle She claims 'she's paying 100% of the kids' bills'Younes Bendjima enjoys another night out with two mystery ladies for a sushi dinner in Beverly Hills He enjoyed a night out on Monday with a pal A-Rod's ex 'claims he's threatened to CUT child support payments to their two daughters' after buying new $15million pad with J. Lo Tension The house that Instagram built! Bella Thorne, 20, reveals she earns $65,000 for a SINGLE social media post - and says her earnings PAID for her LA home Paris Jackson cuddles 'P**** Posse' king Andrei Guillot after split with 'girlfriend' Cara Delevingne Couple were spotted packing on PDAs in LAKaia Gerber radiates cool in vintage tee and messy tresses for the cover of i-D's Super Youth issue Daughter of Cindy Crawford Minka Kelly dons Stella Mc Cartney creepers at the designer's H. E. A. R. T. brunch in LA Bared her midriff in a knotted white T-shirt and she also wore khakis Advertisement Keeping casual! Jonah Hill looks like a new man as he unveils fresh new buzz cut in New York Showed off his hairdo as he strolled through New York Paris Jackson and Cara Delevingne appear to be still together in cozy Instagram snap amid split rumors Black and white snap of the models was shared April Love Geary displays terrific figure in red dress... SIX WEEKS after welcoming baby Mia She became a mother on February 22Moo! Anna Faris 'milks' James Corden and Kunal Nayyar dressed as cows for Late Late Show milkmaid skit Faris' her hair in pigtails and she carried a pail Effortlessly chic! Alessandra Ambrosio showcases fabulous figure in dark leggings as she treats herself to spa day Pamper day Beaming beauty! Isla Fisher is cowgirl chic in straw hat and frilly white dress at Stella Mc Cartney brunch Stars flocked to the alfresco brunch Photos show bruising and cuts suffered by Nick Gordon's girlfriend after he allegedly punched her in the face during drunken rage Bobbi Kristina's ex Luann de Lesseps says she isn't looking to date right now.. after showing off sensational bikini bod The Real Housewives of New York star opened up Dance Moms star Abby Lee Miller looks on the verge of tears as she leaves halfway house in Los Angeles... after trip to emergency room Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson reveals he may run for president in 2024 as he leads the stars at the UK premiere of his new film Rampage Kaley Cuoco wears 'lover' T-shirt while on coffee run with pretty friend who exposes her tummy After a gym session in Los Angeles Ivanka Trump flashes a cheery smile and wave as she leaves her D. C. home looking very glamorous in vibrant $1,100 skirt and matching boxy blouse Tristan Thompson arrives at Four Seasons Hotel in NYC with strip club worker just days before pregnant girlfriend Khloe Kardashian's due date Coco Austin dismayed as she gets a parking ticket while out in New Jersey rocking multicolor ensemble She wore a head-turning outfit Cynthia Nixon says marijuana is 'effectively legal' for white people but lands people of color in jail as she reveals her position to legalize the drug across New York Advertisement Kendra Wilkinson enjoys night out with Tori Spelling and other stars amid amicable split from Hank Baskett At The Millennial Mamas' Mom's Night Out event Black-ish creator Kenya Barris may follow Shonda Rhimes out of ABC after clashing over 'racially-charged' episode - as the network shifts to the right SEBASTIAN SHAKESPEARE: Spot the difference? Look how Kate Moss' half-sister Lottie has blossomed Her enlarged chest has set tongues wagging Selena Gomez looks happy as she promotes Hotel Transylvania 3: Summer Vacation with Andy Samberg Bouncing back from Justin Bieber split Failed romances, a marriage plagued by drug use and 'serial cheater' Tristan Thompsonl: Inside Khloe Kardashian's tormented love life Bride-to-be Princess Eugenie sports a shiny new bob as she examines a pair of stripey socks and visits a gin stall at a charity event in London Louis CK takes his dog to the park in NYC during rare sighting since last year's sexual assault allegations He's kept out of the public eye Jenelle Evans' ex-husband Courtland Keith Rogers is arrested for selling drugs and hit with 'habitual felon' charge Teen Mom 2 star's ex Justin Bieber has awkward incident with fan who hands him a FAKE $100 bill Justin Bieber was leaving the El Rey Theatre in Los Angeles Jenna Dewan looks tense on her way to yoga class in Los Angeles after split from husband Channing Tatum Keeping life normal Advertisement Jennifer Lopez, 48, looks exhausted at Miami gym with boyfriend Alex Rodriguez after canceling Las Vegas show The Queen and Sir David Attenborough are voted the most admired people in Britain in new poll that ranks Jeremy Corbyn higher than Pope Francis Elizabeth Hurley, 52, shows off her enviable figure in TINY blue snakeskin bikini on Instagram Actress smoldered for her followers Justin Bieber's blue Lamborghini spray-painted with the phrase 'cash only' outside spin class...days after his khakis were marked with same phrase Christina El Moussa and Tarek El Moussa film Flip Or Flop together post-divorce Looked to be getting on just fine despite their dramatic breakup Lamar Odom 'feels terrible' for ex Khloe Kardashian as it's claimed boyfriend Tristan has cheated KThe poair have stayed close despite breakup Entire Kardashian clan unfollows Tristan Thompson on social media after NBA star is caught 'cheating' on pregnant Khloe days before birth January Jones sports pink hoodie for flight out of LAX... after spending spring break in a swimsuit She has been dreaming about The Rock Chris Brown's ex Karrueche Tran lets rainbow dress ride up exposing her hot pants in Miami Looked boadacious filming her TNT show Miley Cyrus parades her fantastic figure in Calvin Klein sports bra during lunch with Liam Hemsworth Singer, 25, aimed for a subdued-yet-sexy look Advertisement Angelina Jolie and Bill Gates are the world's most admired people, survey finds - beating out Oprah Winfrey and Barack Obama Surbey by You Gov Khloe Kardashian's beau Tristan Thompson 'is a serial cheater' and 'more women will talk' Shocking stories emerging as he is linked with TWO women Martha Hunt dons semi-sheer top that reveals her bra while carrying golden balloons through New York Stunning model, 28, took dog for a walk Brad Pitt 'has key to new love Neri Oxman's apartment and spends nights there' Movie star is said to be dating hot professor at MITDiane Kruger chugs yogurt drink while bundled up in hoodie and jacket in NYC She has a sensational figure that she often flaunts Naomie Harris goes braless in plunging blazer as she joins Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson at the star-studded UK premiere of Rampage PICTURED: Strip club worker who 'spent weekend with Tristan Thompson' as 'SEX TAPE' of NBA star with second woman emerges EXCLUSIVE: Celebrity trainer Bob Harper meets for the first time the young doctor who saved his life after suffering a near-fatal heart attack in the gym Amal Clooney nails summer chic in stunning florals as she steps out in NYC... after revealing all on finding love with George and life with their twins Elton John calls Miley Cyrus 'the sexiest lady in the whole wide world' as he discusses Revamp album Pair teamed up for Grammy Awards duet Advertisement ABC's The Great American Baking Show series 'will not return' following sexual harassment scandal Starred Ayesha Curry and Paul Hollywood Pauly Shore's mom Mitzi who helped Jay Leno, Jerry Seinfeld and Robin Williams with their stand-up careers dies at age 87 Comedy Store owner Busy Philipps is retro chic as she arrives at Today studios in NYC in floral skirt and orange turtleneck Actress showed her flair for style Kim and Kourtney Kardashian shock fans as they post saucy bikini photos... hours after Tristan Thompson is caught 'cheating' on heavily pregnant Khloe'You remember don't you Mr Cosby?' The disgraced comedian is unfazed as sexual assault accuser addresses him directly from the witness stand Dank je! Delighted Queen Maxima of the Netherlands accepts a bouquet from a well-wisher at a conference in Zandvoort Kate Hudson cradles her bump in first outing since pregnancy reveal as she flashes diamond on ring finger Actress is expecting her third child Khloe Kardashian's fans flood Tristan Thompson's Instagram with snake emojis after cheating scandal NBA star spotted kissing another woman Amy Schumer reveals she knew Chris Fischer was 'the one' only one month after they started dating Comedian opened up about getting married Robin Thicke and girlfriend April Love Geary dote on their newborn baby Mia at cozy lunch in Malibu Little girl was born in February Advertisement Mariah Carey reveals battle with bipolar disorder: Singer, 48, admits she 'lived in denial and constant fear' over shock diagnosis Tristan Thompson's ex Jordan Craig, 26, breaks her silence to plead for peace after NBA star betrays Khloe Kardashian She has a son with him Kourtney Kardashian looks incredible in tiny black string bikini as she joins sister stunning Kim on the beach in Turks And Caicos Gigi Hadid looks chic in all-black ensemble in NYC after talking about losing weight The 22-year-old wore a a cardigan over a turtleneck Gigi Hadid reveals she 'misses her a** and t**s' after thyroid disease caused her to rapidly lose weight Stunning model has lost a lot of weight Penelope Cruz, 43, cuts an effortlessly chic figure in a blazer and embellished top for film event in her hometown of Madrid Actress is in Spain Emily Ratajkowski rejected husband's marriage proposal... but then he won her over with romantic gesture Tied the knot soon after they started dating Sex And The City star Kristin Davis splashes out $5.3 million on majestic five-bedroom villa complete with stunning canyon views and swimming pool Outfit Princess Diana wore in iconic photograph walking across an Angolan minefield to go on display for FIRST time at Kensington Palace Nicole Murphy, 50, looks ready for summer as she enjoys lunch outing with mystery man in Hollywood Eddie Murphy's ex had a blast Advertisement Riley Keough dons a pink Louis Vuitton blouse and admits she plays a lot of 'tough bad b*****s' Elvis' granddaughter turns 29 next month Eva Longoria shows off her large baby bump in unforgivably tight white dress as she heads to interview with Jimmy Kimmel Daring fashion move Liv Tyler looks truly radiant in soft pink coat and bright red lipstick as she cuddles up to her dog Neal in NYC Actress turned heads as she stepped out Luann de Lesseps flaunts her fabulous figure in skimpy white bikini after shedding eight pounds during her court ordered stint in rehab Lady in red! Queen Letizia puts in a glamorous appearance in a striking red Zara coat as she visits a university in southwestern Spain Princess Sofia, 33, shows off model looks as she joins pretty in pink sister-in-law Victoria, 40, for kids' forum at Stockholm's royal palace Meghan Markle's father Thomas gets his very own 'throne' as he buys toilet for his Mexican home ahead of his daughter's royal wedding Kerry Washington makes some bold fashion statements in NYC to plug Scandal finale Dropped into Good Morning America to dish Ben Affleck 'buys $19.2million LA mansion with seven bedrooms, cinema and spa... as he relocates to be close to ex Jennifer Garner and three kids''He souldn't be here': Patriots owner Robert Kraft visits rapper Meek Mill in prison and demands 'criminal justice reform' Probation violation Advertisement Harry will embark 'on his own special relationship' when he weds Meghan, says US ambassador as prince launches veterans' walk across America Cardi B masks her baby bump yet flashes her cleavage at album launch... days after confirming pregnancy Expecting first tot with fiancé Offset Abby Lee Miller 'sent to emergency room after leaving her halfway house in ambulance' Reality star was sent to a hospital in Los Angeles PICTURE EXCLUSIVE: Kourtney Kardashian's beau Younes Bendjima spotted hugging Leonardo Di Caprio's girlfriend Camila Morrone after night out The Greatest Couple! Hugh Jackman, 49, writes gushing tribute to wife Deborra-Lee Furness, 62, as the couple celebrate 22 years of marriage Brad Pitt attends LA Dodgers game against Moneyball team Oakland Athletics after new romance reports He is 'absolutely smitten' with Neri Oxman Sheree Whitfield 'FIRED from Real Housewives of Atlanta'... a decade after first appearing on series She will not be returning next season Amanda Bynes demands Twitter and Instagram remove fake accounts asking fans to send her money because she is too broke to buy her meds Georgina Chapman leaves house that Harvey Weinstein has reportedly sold for $26.5m amid allegation she KNEW of his lewd behavior Roseanne cast then and now: see how the stars have changed since their school days Some classic shots of the ensemble have been unearthed Advertisement Paul Bettany admits he proposed to Jennifer Connolly TWICE... as diary clashes made him miss out on The Crown Reveals why he didn't land coveted role Amy Schumer was persuaded to get married by Adele... but singer PULLED OUT of officiating her wedding to partner Chris Fischer at the last minute'My heart is broken for you sis': Amber Rose reaches out to rival Khloe Kardashian via Instagram amidst Tristan Thompson cheating scandal That's not a mermaid tail! Blanca Blanco flaunts her toned booty in skimpy swimsuit for Malibu shoot The exquisite beauty left little to the imagination Sophie Turner admits she's still in shock over her engagement to Joe Jonas six months ago Revealed she has found a sense of calm after finding 'the one'Khloe and Tristan drama couses social media meltdown: Fans go wild with memes as video surfaces of basketball star 'kissing another woman'Bar Refaeli shows off her impressive post-baby body in slinky black slip dress at jewelry bash in Paris Leonardo Di Caprio's model ex 32Jenna Dewan after Channing Tatum split: Actress spotted on LA set of musical drama Mixtape as she returns to work following shock marriage breakdown Proud auntie! Duchess of York's sister Jane carries identical version of Fergie's favorite tote bearing princesses Beatrice and Eugenie's faces Amber Rose leaves little to the imagination as she grinds with shirtless hunks in raunchy new photo-shoot Sexy campaign Advertisement Brad Pitt is 'absolutely smitten by' MIT professor Neri Oxman as 'their chemistry is off the charts' 'Got romantically involved almost right away'Blac Chyna's teen boyfriend YBN Almighty Jay proposes to her on Instagram 'Will You Marry Me?' the 18-year-old rap artist wrote Brooklyn Beckham fires back at Chloe Moretz in 'f*** you' socks after she hints at cheating ex following THAT kiss with Lexi Wood Singer Janelle Monáe dances around in VAGINA pants and shows off fake pubic hair in new music video that 'celebrates self love and sexuality'Bindi Irwin pays touching tribute to 'amazing' brother Robert in sweet snap for National Sibling Day... days after meeting Prince Charles Hello petal! Emily Ratajkowski shows off hint of svelte torso in floral print crop top on Jimmy Fallon's show She is currently promoting her new film Paris Jackson cuddles late dad Michael in edited family snap... but fans slam Photoshop as 'creepy' Shared a fan edit of her late musician father Screenwriter Dustin Lance Black slams 'homophobic' radio caller who tells him 'two blokes can't bring a baby up' Having baby with beau Coco Austin rocks red and white outfit as she joins Ice-T and baby Chanel for Nordstrom NYC opening Chose a stylish ensemble Robert De Niro cuts a relaxed figure with his unkempt beard as he takes a stroll around New York City The Oscar winner, 74, sported cozy knitwear Advertisement EXCLUSIVE: Tristan Thompson caught on video locking lips with a brunette at Manhattan club just days before Khloe Kardashian is set to give birth to their baby Mommy and me! Lingerie model Sarah Stage breastfeeds her cherubic five-month-old son Logan as she poses in glamorous gowns for ethereal shoot Eva Longoria 'breaks her waters' on Pauly D during pregnancy game on Ellen De Generes show and reveals she 'hasn't done anything' to prepare for baby Things get spices on Real Housewives Of Beverly Hills as Lisa Rinna and Erika Girardi wear lingerie and latex in Berlin Red hot outfits Justin Bieber makes an awkward fashion faux pas as he steps out in socks and sliders for Adam Sandler's comedy show Vibrant red sports socks Making a splash! Demi Lovato shows off her cleavage in plunging outfits as the new face of CORE Hydration water Showcased her curves Rita Ora shows off her flair for fashion in a striped jumpsuit and funky shades as she arrives in Germany Rapper looking stylish as ever Busy Philipps flatters amazing figure in exquisite velvet suit as she enjoys lavish cocktail soirée Enjoyed a day off acting duties Prince Harry becomes patron of British veterans' 1,000-mile coast-to-coast trek - raising expectations he'll take Meghan to US for first overseas trip Amber Heard mocks dog smuggling scandal with ex Johnny Depp as she takes pooch to Syrian refugee camp Previously falsified quarantine documents Advertisement Ladies who lunch! Snooki cuts effortlessly chic figure in flowing black jumpsuit as she steps out for food with Deena Cortese Jersey Shore stars Blac Chyna follows Lani Blair on Instagram... the woman Tristan Thompson 'spent night with' Robert Kardashian's ex-fiancee Dame Joan Collins, 84, is hand in hand with fifth husband Percy Gibson, 52, as they step out for dinner in Hollywood Walking hand in hand Her type of guy! Sofia Richie keeps casual in slouchy co-ord and shades as she heads for coffee with Scott Disick lookalike pal in Los Angeles Liam Payne and Cheryl EXCLUSIVE: 1D singer CONFIRMS couple are back on track after make or break vacation as he returns to the UKHell for leather! Nicki Minaj flashes cleavage in jaw-dropping black ensemble at Los Angeles Lakers game She wore her blonde locks pulled up on top Sienna Miller displays makeup free complexion as she steps out in casual outfit in NYC Worlds away from her red carpet glamour Selma Blair goes makeup free as she displays her slender pins in boho-inspired sundress in LA Showcased effortlessly off-duty style Falling for each other! Kendall Jenner and Scott Disick go skydiving together...after she mocked his romance with Sofia Richie Waist-ing away! Kylie Jenner flaunts her toned stomach after giving birth just two months ago Already lost her pregnancy weight? 'This is far more amazing than I would have dreamed': Ruby Rose expresses appreciation for her life in the wake of split from Jess Origliasso'I don't wanna have a Tiffany Haddish moment': Pregnant Cardi B refuses to talk about her meeting with Beyonce and Jay-Z during TRL takeover'It's out of character': Kylie Minogue reveals the surprise way she'll mark her milestone 50th birthday... as she says she's feeling 'great' ahead of her big day Dream come true! Katharine Mc Phee makes Broadway debut in Waitress and is all smiles at first night curtain call Beamed with pride Bella Hadid flashes cleavage in sheer bandeau top paired with black suit at Dior event in Tokyo At the center of attention again Is she fur-real? Hilary Duff bundles up for a casual dinner date with boyfriend Matthew Koma in NYC They've been dating on and off for over a year Motor racing star Jenson Button takes the trash out as he enjoys a low-key break from 2018 Super GT $100 million star shows he's just like us Orlando Bloom exhibits his torso as he goes shirtless for Malibu beach day with beloved dog Mighty Orlando, 41, was seen soaking up the sun Kim Kardashian and sister Kourtney sport tiny bikinis in Turks and Caicos for National Sibling Day The sisters are currently on a beach getaway Arrow star Katie Cassidy reveals she turned down the chance to date Prince Harry because she didn't want to be known as his 'girl' David Cassidy's girl Solemn Jaime King returns for first time to site of frightening Beverly Hills attack and hugs restaurant worker who helped her during the ordeal Kourtney Kardashian flaunts her figure in crop top and track bottoms in LA after tropical vacation with sister Kim in the Caribbean Feline fine! Paris Hilton rocks a cat hoodie as she takes her dog Diamond Baby to the salon in Beverly Hills Animal-loving star Earning her fashion stripes! Eva Longoria dresses up baby bump in clingy grey dress ahead of appearance on Jimmy Kimmel Expecting first child Blac Chyna designs dream home with sex room, money vault and helipad for Architectural Digest More outlandish than Christian Grey's home? 'It's respectful to do your research': Matty Samaei hits back at RHONY's Bethenny Frankel for not knowing who her Australian counterparts are Highest earning TV drama actress Ellen Pompeo reveals how she negotiated $575,000 per episode of Grey's Anatomy and how YOU can too Anna Faris says her son Jack is 'surrounded by love' after split with ex Chris Pratt on Ellen She called it quits with estranged husband Chris Pratt in August Laverne Cox, 45, FINALLY debuts photo of hunky boyfriend after meeting on Tinder NINE months ago The pair looked very cozy together Singer Aubrey O'Day shares sultry lingerie snaps amid Donald Trump Jr. divorce drama Former Danity Kane star posted VERY provocative photos Astley's back! Westworld fans get Rick Roll'd by the HBO show's creators who'd promised season 2 spoilers 24 minute video online Simpatico! Jennifer Lopez and Alex Rodriguez wear matching white athletic tops on gym visit in Miami Also wore sunglasses That's hair-raising! Russell Crowe shares bizarre social media profile picture of his beard on Twitter following his 'Art Of Divorce' auction The ONLY arm candy to be seen with this season! Beyoncé, Kylie Jenner and achingly cool bloggers go wild for 'ultra luxe' Dutch buggy brand Stylish mom-to-be! Kirsten Dunst covers baby bump in chic black maternity dress as she steps out for lunch date She's expecting her first child with fiance Jesse Jean-ius look! Caitlyn Jenner shows some leg in denim shorts while dining at Nobu with gal pal Sophia Hutchins Snapped wearing a long white sweater Cindy Crawford channels Grecian chic in flowing navy dress and sandals for Beverly Hills shoe event Joined by Lisa Rinna and Maria Menounos Kendra Wilkinson enjoys glass of wine with other reality stars amid amicable split from Hank Baskett The 32-year-old reality star was all smiles'They want me to have somebody in my life': Kate Gosselin reveals her twin daughters hope she will find new love as she's set to chronicle dating life on new show'You are a selfish old woman!' Roseanne clashes with daughter Becky over her $50K surrogacy arrangement in latest episode orf rebooted show Yolanda Hadid legally changes her name a year after finalizing divorce from David Foster She was formerly Yolanda Hadid Foster Focusing on the job! Christina El Moussa looks fabulous in skinny jeans and gray tee filming Flip Or Flop with ex Tarek Stayed friends Ali Fedotowsky dresses her growing baby bump in springtime florals at Hallmark's Home & Family Looking blooming lovely Tyra Banks reveals she almost didn't become a VS Angel after brand sent her home - because NONE of stylists knew how to work her natural hair Yvonne Staples of the Staple Singers dies at age 80 in Chicago Her voice and business acumen powered the success group who had string of hits My, how she's changed! Dorit Kemsley, 41, of RHOBH looks VERY different in 1994 high school yearbook photo Grew up in Connecticut'He has a girlfriend': Real Housewives star Bethenny Frankel reveals Meghan Markle's ex-husband Trevor Engelson is in a new relationship'How lucky am I': Jennifer Garner pays tribute to her sisters Melissa and Susannah on National Siblings Day Shared collage Kendall Jenner models braids and razor-thin sunglasses for Ferrari joyride in LA Wore red and white Adidas sneakers and carried a track jacket Courteney Cox leaves LA venue hand-in-hand with unidentified man who is not Johnny Mc Daid Sfter attending a private event'I'm an emotional wreck!' Twitter users are left 'heartbroken' over Netflix movie Irreplaceable You, labeling it 'the saddest film EVER made'Amy Schumer shares stunning flashback photo from 2010... after revealing she loves carbs The image was taken in 2010Brooklyn Beckham breaks his silence on split from actress Chloe Moretz... after THAT kiss with Playboy model Lexi Wood The Handmaid's Tale star Samira Wiley reveals season 2 will be 'even more bleak' than the first Upcoming episodes drop on April 25Justin Bieber is unmissable in all red outfit as he runs errands in Los Angeles He is enjoying some downtime from his pop career'Is that for old man Negan?' Fans of The Walking Dead suspect Jeffrey Dean Morgan's bushy beard is a Season Nine spoiler Promoting new movie Nicole 'Snooki' Polizzi reveals Jersey Shore cast only earned $200 a week for first season They didn't receive a single paycheck from MTVRussell Crowe looks a little downcast as he drinks coffee and smokes a cigarette in Sydney the day after his divorce from Danielle Spencer was finalized Taylor Swift fan ARRESTED for trying to scale wall at her Beverly Hills mansion Transient Justin Christoph Lilly was arrested Katharine Mc Phee looks flawless as she arrives makeup-free for Broadway debut in Waitress Opening night of the Broadway musical Olympic champion boxer Nicola Adams is left heartbroken after her female American fiancée leaves her for a man The wedding is off Wendy Williams says Marlon Wayans was just 'stating the obvious' about Kim Zolciak's 'fillers' Daytime chat queen wades into spat Ashley Graham puts her curves on show in skimpy swimwear in candid behind-the-scenes look at her Sports Illustrated Swimsuit shoot The 'Douche': James Franco's star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame is defaced on same day actor is seen as sex-crazed warlord in a trailer for new film'Why are you doing this?' Final words of Morgan Freeman's granddaughter as she was stabbed to death in the street 'by her drug-addicted boyfriend'Heidi Klum, 44, stuns in skimpy bikini as she packs on the PDA with much younger beau, 28, in Mexico Their romance blossomed last month. Olivia Culpo wows in skimpy lingerie and VERY racy black mesh dress for Italian fashion show in Verona She was the star of the show Jenna Dewan is leaning on her family for support and 'seems relieved' after splitting with Channing Tatum Couple just announced their shock breakup Movie fans vent frustration with Emily Blunt's movie A Quiet Place, revealing that the totally silent film makes it impossible for them to eat popcorn in peace Prince of Wilts! Charles, 69, suffers in the scorching 89F Australian heat as beads of sweat trickle down his face Struggling? UFC star Paige Van Zant says she was gang-raped at age 14 by students from her high school and it left her on the brink of suicide Ex-DWTS contestant Tracy Morgan sports dapper gray suit as he accepts Hollywood Walk of Fame star with his family Emotional moment after his life-changing crash Hailey Baldwin says Kylie Jenner's daughter Stormi 'is one of the most beautiful babies I've ever seen' The 21-year-old model is smitten with tot t Amal Clooney on romancing George and raising twins: Lawyer reveals actor wooed her with emails in the voice of his dog when she'd given up on love at 35EXCLUSIVE: Obama aide reveals how the groupie president fawned over celebs and was steamed when high school coach called his wife 'fat-butt Michelle'Former Silicon Valley star TJ Miller is arrested at La Guardia Airport for 'calling in a fake bomb threat' from an Amtrak train More trouble for star Celebrating his inner child! Lego artist transforms You Tuber Jake Paul's Calabasas mansion by installing thousands of the toy bricks INSIDE the walls RHONJ star Jacqueline Laurita says she and autistic son were kicked out of public library because he was 'tapping DVDs and making a bit of noise'Break out the fat-suit: Ripped Homeland star Damian Lewis will play obese, crack-smoking former Toronto Mayor Rob Ford in new movie Unlikely casting Eye-popping Rita Ora puts on a VERY busty display in tight white sweater as she heads out in New York She's been putting on a fashion parade Adriana Lima leaves the gym with sweat-drenched hair as she flaunts her flat abs in sexy sports bra Brazilian model has one of best bodies in fashion Anna Faris calls decision to get breast augmentation 'f***ing awesome' as she talks Chris Pratt Said she wanted 'to fill out a bikini'Amal Clooney's mother reveals she was advised to abort her due to a placenta condition - but she ignored the advice after having dreams of future daughter's face Kim Kardashian shows off her curves in microscopic hot pink bikini during Turks and Caicos vacation Put her famous figure on display in Caribbean Nicki Minaj's seductive pose for new song Chun Li resembles Lil' Kim's Hard Core image The 35-year-old singer shared a photo to Instagram Katie Holmes seems to be following in ex Tom Cruise's footsteps as she takes on action role The 39-year-old actress transformed into an FBI agent saving a senator Cardi B is 'prepared' for motherhood... but admits she only 'kinda, sorta' considered abortion Rapper made shocking confession Dad's night off! Prince William is spotted at Aston Villa vs Cardiff City soccer game - leaving a heavily pregnant Duchess of Cambridge at home Paulina Porizkova shares adorable picture of herself as a little girl to mark 53rd birthday - after posting a SIZZLING snap in a tiny pink bikini Ne Ne Leakes steps out in Gucci T-shirt as pal EJ Johnson looks chic in crop top and mini skirt The reality stars started their week right, enjoying dinner out at Craig's Kylie Minogue dazzles in a floor-length pink and gold gown as she promotes new album Golden in Germany Made an appearance on the Markus Lanz show Legendary model Claudia Schiffer, 47, looks chic in leopard print scarf and skinny jeans as she steps out with her daughters in NYCJennifer Lopez's trainer Tracy Anderson, 43, reveals fit abs as she says singer 'never hates on herself' Talks about J. Lo's confidence Jessica Simpson lifts the lid on her VERY active sex life with hubby Eric Johnson as she jokes they 'always practice' making babies Haven't slowed down Bad Girls Club reality TV star Nicky Vargas is arrested while topless for giving oral sex to her boyfriend in the parking lot of a Florida apartment complex Carrie Underwood says her face 'is healing really nicely' after getting 50 stitches Singer shared an update with fans, saying she's 'doing pretty darn good'Diane Kruger is comfortably chic in fuzzy teddy bear coat and personalized Christian Dior handbag as she steps out in New York City Taylor Swift fan robs bank and throws cash onto her Rhode Island home in hopes of impressing star The suspect was arrested last week Cindy Crawford and mini-me daughter Kaia Gerber coordinate in b&w outfits in Beverly Hills The supermodel easily defied her 52 years Pregnant Zara Tindall cuts a somber figure as she joins her mother Princess Anne for the funeral of equestrian sport commentator Mike Tucker Gretchen Rossi stuns in gold bandage dress as she joins Real Housewives stars in West Hollywood Big get together at Craig's restaurant Marie Osmond, 58, proves Hollywood friendships DO last as she poses with pal Priscilla Presley, 72 Old pals spent some time together Chris Pine and Annabelle Wallis pictured together for the first time at swanky dinner in Malibu amid romance rumors Pair looked smitten Emily Blunt nearly missed the chance to work with husband in his horror film A Quiet Place She asked Krasinski to 'cast a friend'Seth Meyers reveals wife Alexi Ashe gave birth to second son on Sunday....in the LOBBY of their NYC apartment building Cops helped cut the cord Advertisement DON'T MISSBrandi Glanville runs into former RHOBH co-stars Lisa Rinna and Erika Jayne at Craig's restaurant in West Hollywood She left with a man EXCLUSIVE: Amazing secret A-list life of Leonardo Di Caprio's Scottish stepdad who is spittting image of 'the most interesting man in the world'Emma Slater and Sasha Farber of Dancing With The Stars enjoy their honeymoon in Mexico Pair held hands as they frolicked on beach Ricky Martin regrets not coming out in 'horrible' Barbara Walters interview from 2000 Ceteran journalist cornered the pop star Proof Meghan visits a psychic like Princess Diana did? Makeup artist publicly thanks royal bride-to-be for recommending a 'truly gifted intuitive'Emily Ratajkowski lets her chest do the talking as she leaves Today show in New York City The 26-year-old model showed off her incredible body Emmy Rossum shows off her tanned legs in a darling white shirtdress on shopping trip with husband in Los Angeles The pair spent some quality time together Candice Swanepoel puts naked baby bump on display as she announces she's six months along The 29-year-old model stripped off Michael B Jordan of Black Panther tells Men's Health he wants to build 'Intergenerational wealth' Create legacy for family Amy Schumer admits she eats carbs 'almost every single night' after romantic honeymoon to Milan with chef hubby Chris Fischer Talking to Colbert David Beckham has his hair washed by daughter Harper in sweet video as she also turns stylist to mum Victoria Enjoyed some quality time with daughter Gwen Stefani announces Las Vegas residency and thinks about marrying Blake Shelton 'all the time' Show starts in Sin City on June 27Pictured: Brad Pitt and MIT genius Neri Oxman pose together in previously-unseen snap as SIX MONTH relationship is revealed Posted on social media Human Ken Doll introduces Jessica Alves: 'Gender fluid' Rodrigo dons skimpy red lingerie and a black wig as he dresses up as a woman Princess Diana's bridesmaid India Hicks reveals she's STILL got her flower crown from the wedding day in 1981 and says it 'brings back fantastic memories''Money, money and lots more money': Bill Cosby's lawyer calls sexual assault accuser Andrea Constand a 'con artist' who framed the comedian Sofia Vergara's ex-fiance Nick Loeb compares his embryo battle with Modern Family star to slavery Pair locked in a bitter lawsuit since 2015Socialite Tamara Beckwith, 47, shows off age-defying figure in VERY small bikini as she sizzles on Miami Beach with husband Giorgio Veroni Emily Ratajkowski says she is glad 'all sizes' are now accepted... even though she's only 119lbs Model and actress posed in skimpy bikini Rachel Mc Adams 'gives birth to a baby boy' with boyfriend after keeping pregnancy private First child for the 39-year-old actress Ashley Graham gets her T-shirt wet and leaves little to the imagination in sizzling new Sports Illustrated video Model looked amazing Mel B divorce tell-all! America's Got Talent judge 'signs deal to pen explosive and moving' book about her marriage to ex-husband Stephen Belafonte WWE star Paige, 25, CONFIRMS retirement after suffering horror 'stinger' neck injury in NYC bout just as she was putting sex tape scandal behind her Porn star Nikki Benz sues adult film studio Brazzers, director Tony T and co-star Ramon Nomar for $5M over 'sexual assault during unscripted scene'Novak Djokovic shares a kiss with wife Jelena as Serbian tennis ace takes a break from training in Marbella, Spain Married for four years Cardi B reveals she got illegal $800 butt injections from a basement in Queens, NY, and it LEAKED for five days afterward Shocking confession Revenge actress Emily Van Camp displays her endless legs in elegant shift as she promotes new show The Resident in London Thigh-skimming outfit Queen Letizia looks her elegant best as she and King Felipe perform their first engagement as a couple following her 'tense' exchange with her mother-in-law Aziz Ansari emerges after sex harassment claims, sitting courtside at the Knicks with Chris Rock and new Masters champion Patrick Reed, before hugging Le Bron Harry and Meghan's engagement photographer reveals the couple were 'so deliciously in love' - and insists no effort was needed to capture it Actress Blanca Blanco, 37, displays her sculpted abs in cropped yellow T-shirt as she steps out in Malibu She looked as sweet as honey Revealed: The anti-ageing secret that keeps Queen Elizabeth looking youthful as she turns 92 (and it's all down to those holidays at Balmoral Castle)Brooklyn Beckham's new girlfriend Lexi Wood compares herself to sex toys in raunchy unearthed interview... following his shock split from Chloe Moretz Barack Obama WON'T be going to Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's wedding next month and nor will Donald Trump as neither of them is invited Gigi Hadid hides her figure wearing sweatshirt and jeans as she heads to a photo shoot in New York The 22-year-old stunner sported a heavy sweater'I had some wine': Jennifer Garner gets drunk and explores the contents of her backpack for bizarre Instagram video Getting the drinks in Ripped! Sammi 'Sweetheart' Giancola posts loved-up pics with hunky new boyfriend to Instagram Flaunted her new man on social media Brad Pitt takes up woodwork to heal broken heart: Actor immersed himself in furniture design following split from Angelina Jolie Katy Perry ends any notion of feud between her and pop stars Madonna and Lady Gaga Pop star, 33, opened up on American Idol Scott Disick, 34, takes girlfriend Sofia Richie, 19, for a romantic meal... as bikini-clad ex Kourtney Kardashian sizzles on holiday Date night Irish actor Stuart Townsend lists his sprawling Spanish-style Malibu mansion, overlooking the ocean, for $5.25 million Charlize Theron's ex Vanderpump Rules' James Kennedy hurls insults at Kristen Doute as 'hooking up' rumor gains strength Jax had a meltdown and was thrown out of Sur EXCLUSIVE: 'Some people go the full hog and look crazy!' RHONY's Bethenny Frankel opens up about getting more plastic surgery Emily Ratajkowski poses TOPLESS in her latest provocative selfie after stepping out in New York City Returned to the east coast from Los Angeles Miniature Donald Trump grandson Luke - complete with junior quiff - says 'hi y'all' to his grandparents on the other side of family in photo shared by Lara Instagram star Skye Wheatley showcases her gym honed physique and bronzed frame in red bikini as she lounges in a bean bag in Bali Royal bride practice! Meghan Markle takes the lead at cutting the celebration cake on her school graduation day aged just 11 Unearthed 1993 video Eva Longoria looks ready to pop on TV's Ellen but still has weeks to go before birth of first child Draped baby bump in a figure-hugging red dress Inside hospital where Duchess Kate will give birth: Mom reveals VERY luxurious facilities inside $8,360-a-night maternity ward (including a wine list)Camila Cabello rocks black lace costume to kick off first solo tour Never Be The Same in Vancouver Former Fifth Harmony singer wowed fans Heidi Pratt cradles her baby son Gunner as she enjoys a hike in Santa Monica... after revealing she's got her pre-baby body back Cooing over her baby DJ Khaled brings his 17-month-old son Asahd to his FIRST-EVER basketball game in their native Miami Raooer cheered on the Heat with fiancee Nicole Radiant in red! Queen Maxima makes a statement in scarlet as she visits the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra in Amsterdam King Juan Carlos is all smiles as he leaves hospital following knee operation - after royal family's awkward encounter was caught on camera Charlize Theron dons an all-black outfit for grocery shopping in Los Angeles with daughter August She is a single mom-of-two Model misery: Victoria's Secret hottie Barbara Palvin reveals she is 'constantly at war with her body trying to adhere to fashion industry's criteria'Kim Zolciak calls Marlon Wayans 'pretty disgusting' for comparing her face to White Chicks character He transformed into a white woman Chloe Moretz emerges for the first time since ex Brooklyn Beckham was spotted kissing model Lexi Wood... and her friendship ring is OFFElsa Hosk steps away from her modelling duties to enjoy thrilling basketball game with pals in NYC Sitting front row with her pals Milla Jovovich and her Resident Evil filmmaker husband Paul W. S. Anderson list their 1960s, three-bedroom Beverly Hills pavilion for $4.5 million Fans left stunned by Chris Hemsworth's youthful mother and father after Hollywood hunk posts picture of his very good-looking family Cardi B jokes about her pregnancy reveal as she makes Tonight Show history as first ever co-host alomgside Jimmy Fallon Growing baby bump Rose Mc Gowan steps out in an orange jacket after preliminary hearing for drug possession is rescheduled All smiles in NYCSelma Blair shows off her boho style in billowing yellow gown with chic sandals for LA juice run The Cruel Intentions star was a vision Thandie Newton rages at British Airways after flight is delayed for six hours then CANCELED - just months after she starred in video for airline'Yesterday I officially became divorced': Russell Crowe finalizes split from Danielle Spencer ... five years after their marriage broke down Helen Mirren, 72, steps out in printed pants and stilettos as she heads for lunch with Taylor Hackford, 73, in LA The actress cut a trendy figure Usain Bolt's girlfriend Kasi looks like a Victoria's Secret model for Carnival in Jamaica Wore a skimpy white and metallic swimsuit with white wings strapped on Debby Ryan shows off her toned tummy in tiny crop top at Cover Versions premiere Former Disney star showed she's all grown up Gabrielle Union stuns in a figure-hugging red dress as she joins Kelly Bensimon at Night of Opportunity Gala in New York On the red carpet Khloe Kardashian shows cleavage in sports bra as she posts on Snapchat while waiting to give birth Pregnant star is expecting first child Angelina Jolie heaps praise on Queen Elizabeth: Actress calls monarch 'really lovely lady' for her dedication to forest conservation in Africa Game Of Thrones star Sophie Turner's SECRET Instagram account revealed... which has already racked up 22,000 followers Prince William praises 'extraordinary example' of author who rebuilt his life after a stranger talked him out of jumping off a bridge Remarkable story'Out of this world!' Shanina Shaik stuns fans with her flawless complexion as she sizzles in beachside selfie Model took to Instagram Tyra Banks struts her stuff in plunging top and pencil skirt following Daily Show appearance in NYC Busy promoting her new book Perfect Is Boring Tallulah Willis puts her phenomenal legs on parade in minuscule shorts on low-key day out Stepping out in Los Angeles Big pals! Selma Blair and Parker Posey hug each other as they dazzle on the red carpet at Lost In Space premiere in LA Sweetest Thing stars Julie Bowen from Modern Family treats her three sons to a fun-filled trip to Disneyland after split She recently split from her husband of 13 years Christie Brinkley, 64, is a beauty in pinstripes and leather at America Inside Out premiere in NYC The Uptown Girl was clad in an all-black Getting of fresh air: Jennie Garth is seen without wedding ring for the first time since Dave Abrams filed for divorce Her husband filed for divorce on Friday Ex-Cosby Show actress stages topless protest at Bill Cosby's retrial as she charges at actor with word 'rapist' and names of alleged victims written on body Kourtney Kardashian one-ups sister Kim with sexy bikini snap as she calls herself Sporty Spice Mom-of-three looked stunning in Caribbean Dakota Fanning and beau Henry Frye bundle up while strolling arm-in-arm through New York Dakota went for a stroll though Manhattan Prince Charles lays a wreath at Darwin war memorial in Australia to honor fallen soldiers during final day of his tour Down Under He wore service medals Outgoing Vogue Editor-In-Chief Anna Wintour sparkles in shiny colorful dress and trademark shades at awards show in NYC Fashion icon D&G darlings! Lady Amelia Windsor sparkles in sequins as she joins Lady Kitty Spencer for a party celebrating the designer in New York Extra co-host Mark Wright exhibits his chiseled abs as he wipes away sweat during soccer game in Los Angeles Feeling the heat Young love! Chandler Powell, 21, dotes on girlfriend Bindi Irwin, 19, as they step out in Queensland...after fans urge the pair to get married Laura Ingraham returns to Fox News after David Hogg attack with rambling monologue about the 'left's plot to silence conservatives'Jessica Biel and Jamie Chung play with adorable puppies at American Express event in New York Delighted as they frolicked with puppies Falcons QB Matt Ryan and his wife announce they are proud parents of TWIN boys after keeping news secret because they were born two months premature Mariska Hargitay and husband Peter Hermann attend special NYC screening of I Am Evidence She produced the HBO documentary All smiles! Kendra Wilkinson takes 8-year-old son Hank to Lost In Space premiere after filing for divorce She has recently filed for divorce Gory scenes! Gina Rodriguez drenched in 'blood' as she films stabbing scene for new Netflix rom-com Someone Great Cameras rolling Amber Heard quietly donates millions to Children's Hospital Los Angeles after making pledge in 2016 to give Johnny Depp divorce settlement to charity Antonio Banderas, 57, refused to retire after heart attack because he didn't want to live like he's 'already dead' Actor, 57, was rushed to hospital last year Justin Bieber stops to check on man who collapsed in the street in Los Angeles He was on his was to his car after leaving Barry's Bootcamp Desilu trademark created by Lucille Ball and Desi Arnaz at center of trademark infringement lawsuit Has become the focus of a legal dispute Jenna Dewan looks pensive as she hits Los Angeles day spa without her wedding ring following shock Channing Tatum split Enjoying some 'me time'So now he's a family guy! Conor Mc Gregor shares snap with girlfriend and son after attacking bus of MMA rivals, as troubled star remains in NYCWedding belles! Paris Hilton confirms Nicole Richie will be invited to her upcoming wedding as she says 'all my girls will be invited' Should be emotional Mark Hamill continues galactic adventures with wife Marilou York at Lost In Space premiere Attended the Netflix Lost In Space season one premiere in Los Angeles Hailey Baldwin and Ashley Graham are effortlessly stylish with matching hairdos at the Infinity Awards in NYC The models were on the same style page Masters champion Patrick Reed visits the Stock Exchange and Empire State building before heading to Madison Square Garden to watch the Knicks Five cases of sex abuse allegations against writer and director James Toback are dropped because they are outside the statute of limitations Melania Trump looks radiant in figure-hugging red as she welcomes a group of middle school kids to the White House for discussion about their daily 'struggles'Rachel Weisz and Daniel Craig hold hands as they show their support at Night of Opportunity Gala in New York The Bond star He's the daddy! Rod Stewart, 73, poses with his four sons aged 37 to seven in sweet family snap shared by photographer wife Penny Lancaster Festival fun! Daphne Joy is feeling the Coachella vibe in curve-highlighting strapless bikini The model made the announcement on Instagram Pink lady! Naomi Watts is pretty in pink as she wears stylish gown with black floral detailing to Tribeca Ball The actress hit the town in New York Kim Kardashian shares stunning bikini snap taken by sister Kourtney during Turks and Caicos vacation She has a habit of showing off her curves Model behavior! Kaia Gerber channels mom Cindy Crawford in black motorcycle jacket at dinner with dad and brother She's fresh off the jet Proud mama! Heidi Montag proudly reveals that she is back to her post-baby body after welcoming son in October She gave birth last year Re-living the glory days! Today's Dylan Dreyer and husband Brian dress up in VERY flamboyant outfits for 80s prom-themed party The meteorologist Ready to drop! Khloe Kardashian producing new series about murderous sisters... as she prepares to give birth Expecting first child David Schwimmer says society needs to 'recognize a spectrum of bad behavior' amid #Me Too movement The Friends star gave his view Bill Cosby flashes a smile leaving court on first day of his sexual assault retrial where accuser's lawyer reveals he paid Andrea Constand $3.4 MILLIONJenny Mollen explains why she doesn't show her 4-year-old son's face in Instagram snaps The actress wants to do her best to keep her children's life private Mean Girls Broadway musical reveals 'first look' video of the show after star-studded opening night Clip was posted to You Tube Today's headlines Most Read The rise of the alpha singles: Two writers - one married and one not - go head to head on the career-driven young women who insist they don’t need a man or marriage to be happy Why do girls of 14 feel the need to plaster themselves with MAKE-UP... and what on earth do their mothers have to say? Is the stress of modern life giving children migraines? The youngsters who've been suffering from agonising symptoms from as young as two How a little white lie ended in a night of horror: Mother-of-one reveals how she was gang raped in the park aged just 12 after telling her parents she was going to a sleepover Can a £2 white T-shirt from Primark beat Posh’s £90 one? Fashion expert puts six plain tops to the test... but can YOU tell the budget from the designer? A daughter’s pilgrimage of love: Woman who lost her father to early-onset Alzheimer's when he was just 55 is now re-creating his carefully documented favourite walks Breakfast connoisseurs mock man's VERY unconventional egg and soldiers meal… but can YOU see the four things they say are wrong with it? MORE HEADLINESAdvertisement "
1032121	who is devon franklin	D2940615	DeVon Franklin	"SEE RANKDe Von Franklin Producer | Miscellaneous Crew | Actor View Resume | Official Photos »De Von Franklin is an award-winning Film & TV producer, best-selling author, in-demand preacher and spiritual success coach. A recognized authority on spirituality, faith and the entertainment business, Franklin is committed to using the power of media as an inspirational tool. Beliefnet calls him one of the ""Most Influential Christians Under 40,"" ... See full bio »More at IMDb Pro »Contact Info: View agent, publicist, legal and company Represent De Von Franklin? Add contact information5 photos | 1 video »Quick Links Biography Awards Photo Gallery Filmography (by Job)Trailers and Videos Explore More Can You Guess This Celeb From His Yearbook Photo? Here's a hint: He just might be your favorite superhero. See if you can guess these other celebrities by their yearbook photos. Start the game Share this page: Related News Film News Roundup: Topher Grace Joins Faith-Based Movie ‘The Impossible’20 March 2018 | Variety - Film News‘Luke Cage’ Star Mike Colter Joins Chrissy Metz In ‘The Impossible’15 March 2018 | Deadline Movie News Marcel Ruiz Takes Charge In ‘The Impossible’; Wolfgang Novogratz Books Lead In ‘Alice’07 March 2018 | Deadline Movie News See all related articles »Around The Web Powered by Zerg Net On Prime Video Watch Now The Karate Kid Watch Now21Watch Now Annie Watch Now The Pink Panther 2Watch Now Hancock See more on Prime Video »Projects In Development Masters of the Universe 201944Angelology Cooley High Fall from Grace Flamin' Hot Foxy Brown Gran Turismo Music to My Ears Spirit of the Law The White Tiger Details only on IMDb Pro »Create a list »User Lists Related lists from IMDb users Henry Danger: The Moviea list of 40 people created 5 months ago50 Most Inspirational African Americans in Hollywooda list of 50 people created 15 Jun 2016Angry Video Game Nerd: The Sequela list of 20 people created 5 months ago Producers of interesta list of 3 people created 2 months ago Christians involved in moviesa list of 460 people created 23 Sep 2012See all related lists »Do you have a demo reel? Add it to your IMDb Page Find out more at IMDb Pro »How Much Have You Seen? How much of De Von Franklin's work have you seen? User Polls Quick, Robin! To the Batcave!Rich Girl, Poor Guy Rejected movie titles of popular films Best Beach Scene? Annie Who? Movies with Math See more polls »Known For Hancock Miscellaneous Crew (2008)21Miscellaneous Crew (2008)The Karate Kid Miscellaneous Crew (2010)Annie Miscellaneous Crew (2014)Show all | | Edit Filmography Jump to: Producer | Miscellaneous Crew | Actor | Self | Archive footage Hide Producer (3 credits)2018The Impossible (producer) ( filming )2017The Star (executive producer)2016Miracles from Heaven (producer)Show Miscellaneous Crew (8 credits)Show Actor (2 credits)Show Self (30 credits)Show Archive footage (3 credits)Related Videos Edit Personal Details Other Works: Release of his book, ""Produced by Faith: Enjoy Real Success Without Losing Your True Self"". See more »Edit Did You Know? Personal Quote: The Bible has stood the test of time. Why? Because the stories are good. [2017] See more »Trivia: Ordained minister. See more »Getting Started | Contributor Zone »Contribute to This Page Edit page "
1061353	why are us incarceration rates so high tonry	D143068	Five things everyone should know about US incarceration	"The US has the highest incarceration rate not because it has higher crime rates, but because it imprisons more types of criminal offenders, including non-violent and drug offenders , and keeps them in prison longer [Getty Images]In the next few weeks, the US Congress will likely pass gun control legislation. President Obama will sign it into law and both Democrats and Republicans will walk away feeling that they did something to stem the tide of gun violence. That something likely will be to increase the criminal penalties for transferring, buying and using a gun illegally. It will not be the first time that Congress has skirted the real issue in favour of symbolic measures that ""look tough"" and make legislators look good by putting more people in prison for longer. Since the late 1980s, the US federal and state governments have sold imprisonment as the solution to myriad problems that have their roots in much more complex social and economic conditions. The criminalisation tendency is politically expedient. This ""prisons-first"" political culture has one big downside: it has created mass incarceration. Here are five things that everyone should know about mass incarceration in the United States.1. The US incarcerates more people per capita than any other nation in the world: Approximately 1 in 100 adults or more than 2.2 million people are behind bars in the US, according to the Pew Center on the States. In addition, another 4.6 million (or a total of almost 7 million) people live under some form of correctional supervision. Although the US is widely recognised as a ""land of liberty"", it could also be described as a nation of prisons. It incarcerates more people per capita than any other nation. Its imprisonment rate (per capita) is almost 50 percent higher than Russia's and 320 percent higher than China's. Within the western hemisphere, the US incarcerates five times as many people per capita as Canada and almost 2.5 times as many as Mexico.2. Mass incarceration is not a result of higher crime rates: The US has the highest incarceration rate in the world not because it has higher crime rates, but because it imprisons more types of criminal offenders, including non-violent and drug offenders, and keeps them in prison longer. With the exception of homicide, US crime rates are comparable to other European countries with much lower incarceration rates. High incarceration rates are the result of ""truth in sentencing"", ""mandatory minimum"" and ""three strikes"" laws which have limited judicial discretion in sentencing and parole release. As a result, sentences are now mainly determined by what the prosecutor decides to charge. And prosecutors routinely over-charge defendants in order to encourage plea agreements. An egregious, but not unusual, recent example illustrates this point. In 2012, a Florida woman, who fired a ""warning shot"" in the direction of her physically abusive ex-husband (who was not hit by the bullet), was charged with aggravated assault with a deadly weapon. The judge, as a result of mandatory sentencing legislation, was given no discretion in her sentencing. He sentenced her to 20 years in prison. US prisons face increasing dementia3. Mass incarceration disproportionately impacts US racial minorities: Mass incarceration has had a devastating effect on blacks and Hispanics in the US. African Americans are six times more likely to be incarcerated than a white person and non-white Latinos are almost three times more likely to be incarcerated, according to the Pew Center on the States. Incarceration hits hardest at young black and Latino men without high school education. An astounding 11 percent of black men, aged between 20 and 34, are behind bars. Much of the racial disparity is a result of the US' war on drugs - started by President Ronald Reagan in the 1980s. By 1988, blacks were arrested on drug charges at five times the rate of whites. By 1996, the rate of drug admissions to state prison for black men was 13 times greater than the rate for white men. This is despite the fact that African Americans use drugs at roughly the same rate as white Americans.4. Mass incarceration is expensive: Imprisoning people is not cheap. The average cost of housing an inmate is approximately $20,000 to $30,000 per year. This price tag comes at the direct expense of public money that could be spent on public education, medical care and public assistance. And it is one reason why so many states face fiscal crises today. To put this in perspective, the state of California spends 2.5 times more money housing and feeding its inmates than it does educating students. California is not alone: five states ""spend more on corrections than higher education"", a 2008 Pew Center study revealed.5. Mass incarceration disguises the US' real unemployment rate and exacerbates inequality: The current unemployment rate in the US is high. And if we factored in all the people who are not looking for work because they are behind bars, it would be higher - especially among young black Americans and people without a high school diploma. A recent research by Becky Petit reveals:""Employment-population rates adjusted to include inmates suggest that only 26 percent of young black, male dropouts were employed in 2008, while over 37 percent were in prison or jail. Over half of the joblessness of young, black, and male dropouts is linked to incarceration. ""Incarceration also negatively impacts former prisoner's ability to earn a decent living. Several studies suggest that there are at least six million ""ex-prisoners"" living within society and when they look for a job, they are 50 percent less likely to be hired than job seekers without a criminal record. Former prisoners are paid less than those who have not been to prison. In addition, incarceration of a parent reduces a child's prospects for economic mobility. Heather Schoenfeld is an assistant professor of sociology at Ohio State University. Her most recent article on mass incarceration will appear next month in the American Journal of Sociology. She is currently writing a book tentatively titled Growing Prisons: Race, Politics and the Capacity to Punish in Florida. SOURCE: Al Jazeera ABOUT THE AUTHORHeather Schoenfeld Heather Schoenfeld is an assistant professor of sociology at Ohio State University. She is currently writing a book tentatively titled Growing Prisons: Race, Politics and the Capacity to Punish in Florida. US & Canada United States "
1077072	wikipedia what is dopamine?	D1745616	Dopamine	Dopamine From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedianavigation search Dopamine is a neurotransmitter. Many different kinds of animals and humans use it to transmit information. It is used when the brain sends signals to the muscles in the body to make them move. It can make a person feel good. Dopamine is an important chemical found in the brain. If the brain does not make enough dopamine, it causes an illness called Parkinson's disease. This can be treated by giving the Parkinson's disease patient a drug called L-Dopa, which the body converts to dopamine. Dopamine is a neurotransmitter that plays many important roles in the human brain and body. If you have ADHD, scientists think that you got it from one of your parents' genes. Typically, a number of genes are involved. Many affect the dopamine neurotransmission. This short article about biology can be made longer. You can help Wikipedia by adding to it. Categories: Molecular biology Biochemistry
1138360	who is robert farago	D1643373	Robert Farago - (Best) Gun Blogger	"Robert Farago - (Best) Gun Blogger Some time ago I discovered thetruthaboutguns.com blog, and it has quickly become my favorite destination for intelligent and honest discussion on most things gun-related. The Truth About Guns (TTAG) has a broad view of firearms, which I find refreshing. TTAG's blog posts are presented as point of view, as opposed to point of fact. So unlike most other gun blogs, TTAG does not suffer from annoying self-righteousness and self-certainty that makes other gun blogs unreadable. After noticing a few passing references to Judaism, I began to wonder if TTAG's main editor was Jewish. As it turns out, Robert Farago, TTAG's Managing Editor and Publisher is indeed a member of the tribe. He graciously agreed to participate in a Q & A exchange about himself and his blog: 1. Where did you grow up, and where do you live now? I grew up in Providence, RI. I live in Providence, RI. In between the two, I've lived in Boston, Atlanta and various parts of southern England. 2. What motivated you to start your blog, thetruthaboutguns.com? What motivates you to keep doing it? Are there any particular goals for the blog? I started TTAG to combine my passion for writing and shooting (though not both at the same time). I did so after I sold my website www.thetruthaboutcars.com to a corporate conglomerate that had no more interest in nurturing artistic talent than raising ferrets (despite their ferret-like behavior). I'm motivated by OCD, low self-esteem, an inflated ego, a wicked sense of humor, a hatred for lousy editors and a love of the the truth. My goal for the blog is to A) make money for myself and my writers and B) reach 1m unique viewers per month to achieve A. 3. Who introduced you to firearms? How old were you the first time you went shooting? I introduced myself to firearms. Hello firearms. Nice to meet you. I put the bullets where? Seriously, I just decided to take it up at the ripe old age of 50. OK, 51. I'd shot some as a kid. Plinking with a friend who had a gun. Hunted ducks with my Dad. Once. But it never really ""took"" until I started the website and got into the tactical and political aspects. 4. Are you involved in shooting sports? What shooting sports have you competed in? Have you earned any awards or classifications? I've got no time for formal competition; I'm something of a Mr. Mom as well as a blogger. I take as much training as possible and shoot at least three times a week. Mostly defensive handgun (MOVE!) but also shotgun and rifle. 5. What do Jewish family members and friends think about your affinity for guns and your blog? My Mom is a typical jewish liberal. But she's old enough now where she doesn't really care as long as I don't put on too much weight (go figure). My U. S.-based kids go to a Quaker school that preaches non-violence. Naturally, we have a semi-secret militia. Lots of parents shoot. As for my friends, they're all gun nuts too. Either that or they're not my friends, as I tend to be both reclusive and monomaniacal. 6. Have you “converted” any Jews to gun ownership? Any interesting stories about that? I've certainly renewed some of my Jewish friends' acquaintance with firearms. They hadn't shot in years before I got them back to the range. There was one gentlemen who said he'd never fire a gun at another human being. After two targets, I put up a human silhouette. He drilled center mass and we talked about the difficulty of doing it in the heat of the moment. He now keeps a Kimber by his bed. 7. Is there anything else you would like to say to the readers? I am the son of a Holocaust survivor. I am deeply shamed by the gun control perpetuated by Jewish politicians. They are our own worst enemies. God directs that we should defend our lives. To remove the single most effective instrument of that defense from ourselves and our people is to affront God with our ignorance and stupidity. This is the single most important issue we will ever face. Do not vote for any Jewish politician who favors gun control. Go check out Robert and the other authors over at thetruthaboutguns.com. I have also added him to my list of prominent Jews who support the Second Amendment. Posted by Jewish Marksman at 8:01 AM Email This Blog This! Share to Twitter Share to Facebook Share to Pinterest Labels: Interviews , Robert Farago "
1141793	where did hollandaise sauce come from?	D1511250	Hollandaise Sauce: The Gold Standardâs Origin	"Posted by Susan Waggoner Wednesday, February 18th, 2015You are here: Food 101 » Hollandaise Sauce: The Gold Standard’s Origin Hollandaise sauce has a reputation worthy of Cleopatra: tempting, beguiling, and notoriously hard to handle. The reputation is well-earned – but who’s going to pass up a chance to hang out with the Queen of the Nile, even if she is a bit temperamental? Once you know what not to do, you’ll be sailing. What is Hollandaise Sauce? Forget anything you may have had that came out of a packet or been ladled up from a steam table. True Hollandaise tastes of real butter, real eggs, and should not have been sitting in a chafing dish for hours on end. Hollandaise is a mild, rich sauce brightened with lemon juice and most often paired with eggs, grilled seafood, beef, and vegetables like asparagus, broccoli, or artichokes. Its magic lies in its perfectly silken texture, it’s buttery scent, and the fact that, when made properly, it is not heavy but light and airy. The Very Un-Dutch History of Hollandaise Sauce Despite its name, there is general agreement that Hollandaise was born in France and was originally known as Sauce Isigny, after a town in Normandy famous for its butter and cream. What provoked the name change is uncertain, and the alternate name of Sauce Isigny is still listed in French reference books. A popular explanation for the name change is that, when World War I shut down Normandy’s dairy industry, the sauce was rechristened “Hollandaise” to note the use of imported Dutch butter. I didn’t have to dig through too many old cookbooks to discover that the term Hollandaise was in use for this type of sauce long before the 20th century. The first description of a Hollandaise-like sauce comes in La Varenne’s watershed cookbook of 1651, The French Cook. La Varenne recommends serving asparagus with a sauce made of “good fresh butter, a little vinegar, salt, and an egg yolk to bind the sauce.” The scant directions – “take care that it doesn’t curdle” – tell us the sauce was cooked and presumably whisked. La Varenne doesn’t give the creation a specific name, but simply titles his recipe “Asparagus in Fragrant Sauce.”Marie-Antoine Carême, the legendary French chef who cataloged, described, and organized hundreds of sauces, includes a classic, instantly recognizable recipe, referring to it as an “old” recipe and referring to it as Hollandaise even while calling for Isigny butter, inferring that Hollandaise was the established name well before the 1830s. Although Carême was obviously familiar with Hollandaise sauce, he did not name it as one of his four mother sauces. Hollandaise was added to the list as the fifth mother sauce by 20th century chef and culinary writer Georges Auguste Esoffier. Most Americans associate Hollandaise with Eggs Benedict – and for good reason, since the dish was born here and made the sauce famous from coast to coast. The chef credited with inventing Eggs Benedict is Charles Ranhofer, who created it for a favorite customer in the 1860s and included the recipe in his 1894 cookbook, The Epicurean. How To Make Hollandaise Sauce Like it’s daughter sauce, Béarnaise, Hollandaise is an emulsion sauce, made by marrying two ingredients that are not the least bit inclined to wed. Mayonnaise is also an emulsion sauce, but whereas mayonnaise is made simply by whisking, both Hollandaise and Béarnaise call for gradually whisking clarified butter into egg yolks over low heat. Both the need to gradually whisk in the butter and the added wild card of heat give Hollandaise its reputation as a difficult sauce to master. Too little heat and the sauce will not thicken, too much and it will curdle into scrambled eggs. The first case can be remedied by raising the heat a bit, the second cannot be repaired, but will give you the most delicious scrambled eggs you ever eaten. Another pitfall is adding too much clarified butter at a time. If not added in small amounts, the ingredients will not combine. This is often referred to as a “broken” sauce, which can be repaired. If you see the clarified butter beginning to pool rather than combine, remove from the heat at once and beat in a tablespoon of cold water. If the sauce actually breaks (you’ll know it when you see it), whisk an egg yolk with a tablespoon of cold water in a separate bowl, then slowly beat in the warm sauce. The result won’t be as light as a sauce that didn’t break, but it will still be delicious and smooth. Once the sauce is finished, it can be held over low heat for up to 30 minutes before serving. If kept longer or refrigerated and reheated, it will lose much of its airiness but still taste good. In addition to the classic recipe for Hollandaise sauce, Alton Brown has devised an alternate Hollandaise sauce recipe that takes a bit more time but is less likely to break. You will also come across recipes that purport to be easy blender versions of Hollandaise. While it’s fine to use a hand-held mixer instead of a whisk, I don’t recommend anything that relies on a blender. The blades of a blender cut but do not incorporate air as a whisk or beaters do, and the sauce will not have the billowy texture it should. Also, a blender distances you from the sauce – it’s hard to see what’s going on until it’s too late to do anything about it. Knowing what to avoid – too much heat and adding too much butter at a time – is the key to making a beautiful Hollandaise sauce. And now that you know, you’re ready to rock it. Featured Photo Credit: 3News, New Zealand Share this: Facebook Twitter Google Linked In Email Like this: Loading... Related What are Mother Sauces? January 14, 2015In ""Featured""How to Make Hollandaise Sauce (Video)December 9, 2013In ""How To's""Sriracha: A Brief History of the World's Most Popular Hot Sauce August 5, 2015In ""Food 101""Related Items: food history Susan Waggoner I’m a full-time writer and food enthusiast. I love writing about food’s role in history and culture, and have found that cooking and fooling around in the kitchen is a perfect break from my work. Give me a blizzardy day when I can make bread and soup and watch the snow pile up and I’m happy. "
1143396	when can you assume molality and molarity are equal	D1447807	Are molality and molarity equal for very dilute solutions?	"Vivek Bhargude, studied at D. Y. Patil College of Engineering, Pune Answered Aug 23, 2017 · Author has 122 answers and 120.9k answer views Molar concentration or molarity is most commonly expressed in units of moles of solute per litre of solution. Molality can be defined as ""Total moles of a solute present in one kilogram of a solvent."" The terms need, thus, to calculate molality are Moles of solute and the mass of solvent in kilograms. Dilute solutions mean that the small amount of solute will not significantly alter the volume of the final product or the weight of water required. In a concentrated solution, the solute will make some of the volume, reducing the mass of water required to make one liter. Example: 1 L of the solution contains 0.0001 M Sucrose. If we assume that the density of the solution is almost equal to that of pure water (1 kg/L), then we find that 1 L of solution will weigh 1 kg. If 1 kg of solution contains 0.0001 M of sucrose , then it is 0.0001 m in sucrose, so the molarity and molality are almost the same. I think they are numerically the same to several decimal places.955 Views · View Upvoters Related Questions More Answers Below Under what conditions molarity molality are identical? At what temperature molarity of pure water becomes equal to its molality? Why is the molality of a solution always larger than the molarity? Under what condition will the molality of a solute not be equal to its molarity? What is the molality and molarity of water? Ask New Question Rob Hooft, Ph D in structural chemistry using molecular modeling and X-ray diffraction. Answered Jun 11, 2016 · Author has 2.6k answers and 2.3m answer views Yes, for water solutions at 4 Celsius. For very dilute solutions, the ratio of molality and molarity is the density of the solvent. So they are only equal if the density is equal to one.1.5k Views · View Upvoters · Answer requested by Paean Kumar Groverpromoted by UC Berkeley Extension Organic chemistry course at UC Berkeley Extension. Prepare for grad school & health careers with courses from UC Berkeley Extension. Learn More at extension.berkeley.edu Aditi Kothari, studied at Delhi Public School, Ruby Park Answered Jun 10, 2016Both of them are measures of concentration of solution. Molarity is moles of solute per litre of solution and molality is moles of solute per kg of solvent. Now for the very dilute solution amount of solvent is much much higher than the solute. Considering this we can say moles of solute per kg of solvent is almost equal to moles of solute per litre of solution. Hence for easy calculations while solving problems it is assumed that molarity is equal to molality for very dilute solutions.718 Views · View Upvoters "
1145168	what type of chert is common in oklahoma	D1380788	.	AGS / Geology / Stratigraphy / Ozark Plateaus / Mississippian ST. JOE LIMESTONE/MEMBER OF THE BOONE FORMATIONAge: Early Mississippian Period Distribution: Northern Arkansas, Ozark Plateaus; Oklahoma, southern Missouri Geology: The St. Joe Limestone is a fine-grained, crinoidal limestone that may occasionally contain some smoothly bedded chert. Some beds may display a coarse bioclastic texture. The limestones (and cherts) are frequently gray, but may also be red, pink, purple, brown, or amber. The fossil clasts are generally white in contrast to the matrix. Some thin calcareous shales are found in the sequence (top, lower middle, and base). The base of the St. Joe Limestone is generally marked by a phosphatic, greenish shale or conglomerate. It is a frequent bluff former. A formation rank has been suggested by some workers for the St. Joe Member of the Boone Formation. Crinoids, brachiopods, bryozoa, conodonts, blastoids, ostracods, and rugose coral have been noted in the unit. The basal contact is considered disconformable in most places, but some workers suggest a conformable lower contact with the Chattanooga Shale. The St. Joe Limestone ranges from a feather edge to over 110 feet in thickness. At various localities a sandstone is present at the base of the St. Joe Limestone. Excerpt from Fiftysix quadrangle description: The basal sandstone is a fine to medium-grained, moderately sorted, sub-rounded to rounded, iron or quartz-cemented sandstone. White to light gray and tan on fresh surface but sometimes blotchy due to iron. Weathers dark gray, tan, or black. Thin to thick bedded but most often seen as float. Contains phosphate pebbles and angular white and light gray chert fragments. The greatest thickness (approx 12 ft.) of this sandstone is near Gayler Crossing in the NE1/4, SW1/4, Sec 21, T15N, R11W. This unit yields abundant conodonts. 0 - approx. 12 ft. thick. Original Reference: T. C. Hopkins, 1893, Annual Report of the Geological Survey of Arkansas for 1890, v. 4. Type locality: Named for exposures near St. Joe, Searcy County, Arkansas; principal reference section in a quarry two miles northwest of St. Joe (NE, NW, Sec.18, T16N, R17W)Red St. Joe Limestone near St. Joe Arkansas. Contact (center of picture) between cherty Boone and St. Joe Limestone/Member. St. Joe Member along Highway 71 north of Bella Vista. BOONE FORMATION/ (LIMESTONE/CHERT)Age: Early and Middle Mississippian Period Distribution: Northern Arkansas, Ozark Plateaus; southwestern Missouri and eastern Oklahoma Geology: The Boone Formation consists of gray, fine- to coarse-grained fossiliferous limestone interbedded with chert. Some sections may be predominantly limestone or chert. The cherts are dark in color in the lower part of the sequence and light in the upper part. The quantity of chert varies considerably both vertically and horizontally. The sequence includes an oolite member (Short Creek Member) near the top of the Boone Formation in western exposures and the generally chert-free St. Joe Member at its base. The Boone Formation is well known for dissolutional features, such as sinkholes, caves, and enlarged fissures. Crinoids are the most common fossil found in the formation, but brachiopods, bryozoa, mollusks, corals, shark material, trilobites, conodonts, and others fossils are known. The lower contact of the Boone Formation is considered disconformable in most places, but some workers suggest a conformable lower contact with the Chattanooga Shale; the contact with the St. Joe Member is conformable. The thickness of the Boone Formation is 300 to 350 feet in most of northern Arkansas, but as much as 390 feet has been reported. Original reference: J. C. Branner and F. W. Simonds, 1891, Arkansas Geol. Survey Ann. Rept. 1888, v. 4, p. xiii, 27-37. Type locality: Named for extensive development in Boone County, Arkansas Boone Formation along Highway 65 at Marshall, AR. Boone Formation at Pfieffer, Arkansas. Boone Formation forming “buttresses” north of Marshall along Bear Creek. Boone Formation at Bella Vista exhibiting karstic weathering. MOOREFIELD FORMATION/SHALEAge: Late Mississippian Period Distribution: Central northern Arkansas, Ozark Plateaus; central eastern Oklahoma Geology: The Moorefield Shale in the Batesville area consists of a lower member of black, calcareous shale and siliceous limestone and an upper member of dark, fissile clay shale. The unit listed as the Ruddell Shale on the state geologic map is usually considered part of the Moorefield Formation and is equivalent to the upper member listed here. The formation is sparsely fossiliferous in much of the sequence, but locally may contain an abundant fauna dominated by cephalopods and brachiopods. The lower boundary is sharp and considered unconformable by most workers. The thickness ranges from a thin edge to 300 feet. Original reference: G. I. Adams, 1904, U. S. Geol. Survey Prof. Paper 24, p. 26. Type locality: Named for Moorefield, Independence County, Arkansas. Moorefield Shale in Marshall, Arkansas. Moorefield Shale near Mt. View, Arkansas. RUDDELL FORMATION/SHALEAge: Late Mississippian Period Distribution: Central northern Arkansas, Ozark Plateaus Geology: The Ruddell Shale is described as dark-gray to greenish-gray fissle clay shales with some dark-gray to black limestone concretions. The Ruddell as indicated on the state geologic map is usually considered part of the Moorefield Formation by most geologists and is equivalent to its upper member. See the listing for the Moorefield Formation. Original reference: Mackenzie Gordon Jr., 1944, AAPG Bull., v. 28, n. 11, p. 1631-1634. Type locality: West end of Ruddell Hill (NE, NE, Sec. 13, T7N, R13W), Independence Co., Arkansas. BATESVILLE SANDSTONE/FORMATIONAge: Late Mississippian Period Distribution: Northern Arkansas, Ozark Plateaus; southern Missouri and northeastern Oklahoma Geology: The Batesville Sandstone is often a flaggy, fine- to coarse-grained, cream-colored to brown sandstone with thin shales. A limestone member, the Hindsville Member, found mostly in western outcrops, is a crystalline, fossiliferous limestone that, when present, usually occurs at the base of the formation. In western Arkansas the Hindsville Member may be the only representative of this unit. Fossils are somewhat common in the Hindsville Member, but generally sparse in the sand facies. The basal contact is unconformable and often marked by a chert (Boone Formation) conglomerate. The thickness of the Batesville Formation is quite variable, ranging from a feather edge to over 200 feet. The thickest sections are in Independence County. Original reference: J. C. Branner and F. W. Simonds, 1891, Arkansas Geol. Survey Ann. Rept. 1888, v. 4, p. xiii, 26, 49-53. Type locality: Named for Batesville, Independence County, Arkansas Batesville Sandstone near Rosie, Arkansas. Batesville Sandstone above Moorefield Shale near Mt. View, Arkansas. Hindsville Member (upper half of picture), consisting of a conglomeratic limestone, above the cherty Boone Limestone FAYETTEVILLE SHALE/FORMATIONAge: Late Mississippian Period Distribution: Northern Arkansas, Ozark Plateaus; southern Missouri, eastern Oklahoma Geology: The Fayetteville Shale is a black, fissile, concretionary, clay shale. Dark-gray, fine-grained limestones commonly are interbedded with the shales in north-central Arkansas. The Wedington Sandstone Member, known from west Arkansas outcrops, is composed of gray to brown, fine-grained, sometimes calcareous sandstone. Septarian concretions are common in lower beds of the Fayetteville, but may be found throughout the formation. Fossils are abundant in some intervals and in local areas. Most of the fauna recovered is pyritic, but some silicified material is found. The formation is considered to rest conformably on the Batesville Sandstone (and Hindsville Member). The Fayetteville Shale ranges in thickness from 10 to 400 feet. Original reference: F. W. Simonds, 1891, Arkansas Geol. Survey Ann. Rept. 1888, v. 4, p. 26, 42-49. Type locality: Named for Fayetteville, in the valley of the West Fork of White River, Washington County, Arkansas The lower portion of the Fayetteville Shale, Witts Springs Quadrangle. The upper portion of the Fayetteville Shale on Blue Mountain, near Oxley. PITKIN LIMESTONE/FORMATIONAge: Late Mississippian Period Distribution: Northern Arkansas, Ozark Plateaus; eastern Oklahoma Geology: The Pitkin Limestone is usually a fine- to coarse-grained, oolitic, bioclastic limestone. Sequences of black shale interbedded with the limestone occur in the eastern outcrop area, minor chert is sometime present near either the top or bottom of the interval, and minor sandstone has been reported near the top of the unit in the northwest. The unit becomes more shaly to the south. Fossils are common and include crinoids, brachiopods, bryozoa, corals, bivalves, gastropods, cephalopods, trilobites, conodonts, and shark teeth. The bryozoan Archimedes is a good marker fossil for this unit but does occur in other subjacent formations. The basal contact of the formation is conformable. The thickness of the Pitkin Limestone ranges from a thin edge to over 400 feet. The average thickness is about 50 feet in the west and about 200 feet in the east. Original reference: G. I. Adams and E. O. Ulrich, 1904, U. S. Geol. Survey Prof. Paper 24, p. 27, 109. Type locality: Named for exposures near Pitkin post office in Washington County, Arkansas Mapping since 2007 in areas east of western Searcy County has differentiated a unit of latest Mississippian age that has been informally designated the Imo shale member of the Pitkin Formation. Its lower contact is placed above the uppermost continuous limestone bed of the Pitkin Limestone in the Pitkin Formation, and below the lowest continuous unit of interbedded sandstone/siltstone/shale of the Cane Hill Member in the Hale Formation. This upper contact is most likely shale on shale so is difficult to distinguish in the field. A description from the Canaan quadrangle follows: Imo shale (Upper Mississippian, Chesterian) – consists of several shale units with intervening sandstone units. The lowest unit is a light-gray, calcareous or dark-gray, non-calcareous, fissile shale with interbedded, discontinuous sandstone and limestone. This limestone commonly takes the form of small, yellowish, platy concretions encrusted with fossils, especially Chonetes, or light-gray, lenticular, septarian concretions. Locally, loosely accreted, cigar-sized crinoid stems weather out. Above this shale is a persistent, fine- to medium-grained, thin- to massive- and locally cross-bedded sandstone. Fresh surfaces are buff to tan and locally mottled or banded with dark-red iron blebs. Weathers dark-orangey-brown to gray, and blocky. Commonly exhibits pronounced stylolites, liesegang banding, and honeycomb weathering. Unit thickness ranges from approximately 15-60 feet (5-18 meters). Above this sandstone is a fossil–bearing, dark-gray to black, fissile shale. Fossils are abundant and include bivalves (commonly nuculoids), cephalopods (commonly conical nautiloids), solitary corals (commonly rugose), crinoids, brachiopods, gastropods, trilobites and plant material. Typically contains lenticular, orange to dark-red, fossiliferous limestone tempestites, rounded, non-fossiliferous ironstone concretions, and secondary, fibrous calcite partings. Additional discontinuous, thin-bedded sandstone and limestone beds are interbedded within this upper shale unit. The limestone beds are dark-gray on fresh surfaces and weather dark-red. They are fine- to coarse-grained, oolitic and fossiliferous. Conformable with the underlying Pitkin. Ranges from approximately 40-140 feet (12-43 meters) in thickness. The contact (black line) between the Pitkin Limestone (above) and the Fayetteville Shale (below) along highway 65 near Marshall. Pitkin Limestone at West Fork Arkansas. An upper Mississippian age sequence mapped on the Geologic Map of Arkansas as the lower part of the Cane Hill Member of the Hale Formation in north-central Arkansas has been offered as a separate unit called the Imo Formation (Original reference: M. Gordon, Jr., 1964, U. S. Geol. Survey Prof. Paper 460, p. 34; Type locality: Sulphur Springs Hollow, SE, SE, Sec. 3 & NW, NW, Sec. 11, T13N, R17W; Searcy County, AR.). This sequence is a fossiliferous gray to black shale with some fine- to coarse-grained, phosphatic sandstone and conglomeratic limestone. Upper-most Mississippian age fossils are common in some intervals and include bivalves, gastropods, cephalopods, brachiopods, crinoids, trilobites, palynomorphs, plant material, and others. The upper boundary is poorly defined and may be a shale on shale contact while the base appears to be conformable with the Pitkin Limestone. The maximum thickness of this sequence cannot be determined without a clear definition of its contacts, but descriptions have indicated a range from 200 to 340 feet. This unit was mapped on the Witts Springs Quadrangle by Smith and Hutto, 2007as the Imo Member of the Pitkin Formation. Excerpt description from Witts Springs Quadrangle: Imo Member (Upper Mississippian, Chesterian) – consists primarily of a dark-gray to black, fissile, clay shale with interbedded discontinuous sandstone, limestone, and conglomerate. The shale weathers dark gray to brown, ranges from calcareous to non-calcareous, and often contains platy fossiliferous to non-fossiliferous concretionary intervals. Fossils are common in the shale and include bivalves, gastropods, cephalopods (including Rayonnoceras, Reticycloceras, and Tylonautilus ), brachiopods, crinoids, trilobites, corals (solitary and colonial) and plant material. The sandstone is typically brown to gray in color, fine to medium-grained, thin to medium-bedded, lenticular to platy, and sometimes cross-bedded. The limestone is typically dark gray, fine to coarse-grained, very thin to medium-bedded, and fossiliferous. A conglomerate that is gray to black on fresh surfaces, and orange-tan on weathered surfaces is present in Piney Branch. It is a fine-grained to bioclastic, fossiliferous, oncolitic, limonitic, limestone-pebble conglomerate with clasts up to 3 inches (76 mm) in diameter. The conglomerate also contains abundant calcite veining and reaches a maximum thickness of about 2 feet (0.7 meters). Overall, this upper unit appears to have been deposited in an east-west trending basin formed on the Pitkin south of the 35° 50’ latitude which may extend eastward to the Peyton Creek locality and beyond. The lower contact is placed at the top of a continuous limestone bed in the Pitkin, and the upper contact (the Missisippian/Pennsylvanian boundary) is placed beneath the first continuous sandstone in the Cane Hill. Due to the similarity in lithology between the units at this contact, it is not completely certain and is therefore drawn as a dashed line. Approximate thickness ranges 0 - 140 feet (0 – 43 meters). Cane Hill (thin bedded sandstone) above Imo Member (black shale) of Pitkin Formation in Bear Creek, Witts Springs Quadrangle.
1167920	calories amy's thai coconut soup	D424557	Amy's Thai Coconut, Soups	Product Prepared soup Amy's Thai Coconut, Soupsnutrition grade C plus 140Calories Per Serving11 comments Rating: 4.20 with 44 ratings 2 followers Explanations Salty! Has over 25% of the daily max Americans consume 4000 mg of sodium daily when the maximum recommended amount is 2300mg for healthy adults. Many people should not exceed 1500mg. Most of the sodium (65%) in our diet comes from processed foods, not home cooking or the salt shaker. Excess sodium intake increases blood pressure, causes hypertension and other heart problems. That’s why most of us need to cut back. Very high in saturated fat Not all fats are created equal. Saturated fats are the ones responsible for bad cholesterol buildup in our blood vessels, as well as contributing to coronary disease. Learn about coconuts & saturated fat Coconuts and coconut oil have been vilified due to the high saturated fat content. However, the main saturated fat in coconut oil and coconut milk is lauric acid, which is not as harmful, if at all, compared to saturated fats from animal sources. More research is required before we can recommend using coconut oils on an everyday basis, but a having a jar of coconut oil at home is probably not going to harm you. More info For dieters: Food Points value is 4* Food Points are calculated by Fooducate based on fats, carbs, fiber, and protein. They are not an endorsement or approval of the product or its manufacturer. The fewer points - the better. A naturally good source of Vitamin AThe vitamin A in this product comes from real food, not as a fortified ingredient. This is important because it means you are getting hundreds of additional nutrients from the real food. A good natural source of iron The Iron in this product comes from real food, not as a fortified ingredient. This is important because it means you are getting hundreds of additional nutrients from the real food. More info Nutrition Serving Size: 1/2 can (200g)Amount per Serving My Daily Value Calories 140 Kcal 8%Calories from Fat 90 Kcal 14%Total Fat 10 g 16%Saturated Fat 8 g 47%Trans Fat 0 g 0%Cholesterol 0 mg 0%Sodium 580 mg 25%Total Carbohydrate 9 g 4%Dietary Fiber 2 g 8%Sugars 4 g 9%Added Sugars 2 g 8%Protein 4 g 8%Vitamin A 500 IU 10%Vitamin C 1.2 mg 2%Calcium 40 mg 4%Iron 1.8 mg 10%Ingredients Organic Coconut Milk, Filtered Water, Organic Sweet Potatoes, Organic Carrots, Organic Tofu (Filtered Water, Organic Soybeans, Nigari [Magnesium Chloride, a Natural Firming Agent]), Organic Onions, Organic Green Beans, Organic Shitake Mushrooms, Organic Tamari (Wheat Free [Water, Organic Soybeans, Salt]), Spices (100% Pure Herbs & Spices [No Hidden Ingredients]), Lemongrass, Sea Salt, Organic Evaporated Cane Juice, Organic Cornstarch, Kaffir Lime Leaf, Shallots, Organic Garlic, High Oleic Safflower, Organic Orange Peel, Black Pepper.11 Comments Fooducate User Jan 10 2013Not a fan.. Doesn't taste like the ones from Thai restaurants at all No rating Fooducate User Oct 01 2013I love this soup! I also use it when I cook my garbanzo beans. Rating: 5.00 with 1 ratingskfay Mar 06 2014It is not very similar to what you get in restaurants because there are no spices. I added some curry powder (organic Wild Harvest from Acme) and added more vegetables. SO GOOD. No ratingninagraff Apr 29 2014Doesn't taste the same but it fulfilled my craving for tonight. No ratingahaven7Apr 06 2015not bad for organic No rating EMS410Jun 23 2015My can says 140 calories per serving. No rating Nata Stu Oct 07 2015@EMS410 mine too. And it's also 140 ca per serving. No ratingcherrytatz24May 01 2016love this one.. makes me sad to see its a C and why : (No rating Andrea481Nov 16 2016Calories wrong No rating Auyanna Jul 17 2017SOOO GREASY! Yuck!No rating Awe_some_sauce Aug 29 2017Hit or miss. Like people have been saying it's very bland in spice. I didn't have the oily issue- one thing about coconut milk is that if you boil it/cook it long enough the oils will start to come out. I have a Haitian friend and boiling coconut milk is how she makes her coconut oil. Also if you don't like the oil you can put the can in the fridge and the oil will tend to stick to the can especially the lid - I notice when it's winter my coconut milk in my basement will separate. No rating Description Personalized health review for Amy's Thai Coconut, Soups: 140 calories, nutrition grade (C plus), problematic ingredients, and more. Learn the good & bad for 250,000+ products. Alternatives9 better options Amy's Organic Lentil Soup Amy's Organic Soups, Lentil Vegetable Progresso Soup, 99% Fat Free Lentil Campbell's Well Yes!, Black Bean with Red Quinoa Soup Campbell's Well Yes! Hearty Lentil With Vegetables Soup Amy's Vegetable Barley Soup Amy's Organic Soups, Black Bean Vegetable, Low Fat Simply Balanced Thai-Style Curry Chicken Soup Amy's Chunky Vegetable Soup
1168290	was rockefeller a republican	D405700	Rockefeller Republican	"navigation search Guide to: U. S. Politics Hail to the Chief? American Security Rally of Montana Fred Trump Gun Owners of America Mark Sanford Neo-Confederate Red, blue, and purple states Ulysses S. Grant Persons of interest Joe Arpaio Karl Rove Mary Lou Bruner Michael Bloomberg Robert Kennedy, Jr. Valarie Hodgesv - t - e“”I have just one purpose, and that is to build up a strong progressive Republican Party in this country. If the right-wing wants a fight, they are going to get it... before I end up, either this Republican Party will reflect progressivism or I won't be with them anymore.— Ike Rockefeller Republican (named after former New York Governor and Ford's Vice President Nelson Rockefeller of the Rockefeller family) was a euphemism used to describe members of the moderate wing of the Republican Party. They were the dominant force in the party from the end of World War II until 1964, when the party's conservative elements backed Barry Goldwater for President and did lasting damage to its influence, but remained a powerful wing of the GOP until the late '70s and the ascendancy of Ronald Reagan . Contents [ hide ]1 Positions2 List of historical Rockefeller Republicans3 Where are they now?4 See also5 References Positions [ edit]They were usually fiscally moderate to center-right, [1] socially moderate to center-left, and slightly hawkish on foreign policy, and were thus sometimes referred to as "" liberal Republicans"". Dwight Eisenhower used the term ""modern Republicanism"" to describe this wing of the Party, as opposed to the Old Right led by Robert Taft and other conservatives. Geographically, they were mostly concentrated on the East Coast, especially New York and Pennsylvania, leading to the nickname ""the Eastern Establishment"" to describe them at the height of their power. Economically, they were opposed to socialism and government ownership of businesses, but still supported the rights of organized labor, some regulations on business, and the basic framework of the New Deal as integral parts of a capitalist system, though as FDR notes, they always dressed their tacit support with ""We would like to, uhh, change it, you know?"" They believed in investment in education, health care, and infrastructure, supporting low-cost public universities and the Interstate Highway System as a way to supply businesses with an educated workforce and modern highways to facilitate their growth. Like modern Republicans, they favored balanced budgets, though unlike modern Republicans, they were not averse to raising taxes in order to do so. They were strong supporters of Wall Street and big business; many of their ranks came from the worlds of business and finance. They contrasted themselves with the Democratic Party by styling themselves as the party of ""good governance"" in contrast to the often corrupt (and often Democratic) political machines of the big cities; they were a ""protest vote"" in urban areas, and when elected, they often came in as reformers. Socially, they were broadly supportive of civil rights, feminism, reproductive rights, and other social reform movements, at times to a greater extent than the mainstream of the Democratic Party and certainly more than its white Southern wing. Republicans like Earl Warren presided over many of the early social reforms of the 1950s and early '60s. However, for better or worse, it was typically an upper-class, WASP -y liberalism with a VSP perspective on many such issues, seeking to accept and facilitate changes that were already happening and correct obvious injustices in society, but not rock the boat and push much further. When the New Left emerged in the late '60s, the Rockefeller Republicans often seemed reactionary by comparison. On foreign policy, they repudiated the isolationism of the ""Old Right"" and were often fiercely anti-communist Cold Warriors, though not rabidly so; Dwight D. Eisenhower, in his Farewell Address, warned about the growing power and influence of the military-industrial complex, and Nixon ran on a platform of ending the Vietnam War ""with honor."" Many of the politicians listed below were opponents, or at least critics, of the Vietnam War. List of historical Rockefeller Republicans [ edit]John B. Anderson, Illinois Congressman who found Reagan too conservative for his tastes and ran in 1980 as an independent candidate for president. Anderson won over 6% of the vote, not bad for an independent not running on a party ticket. This would be the last major backlash from the liberals in the GOP against the conservatives that soon after took complete control of the party. Edward Brooke, Massachusetts Senator from 1967-1979. The first African-American Senator elected since Reconstruction, Brooke drew Nixon's ire for opposing his nomination of segregationist G. Harrold Carswell to the Supreme Court. He also supported the Equal Rights Amendment and was an early proponent of gay rights. Thomas Dewey (of "" Dewey Defeats Truman "" infamy)Bob Dole would like you to know Bob Dole is on here too. (Notably before 1996 . )Dwight D. Eisenhower Gerald Ford Charles Goodell, New York Senator from 1968-1971. [2] A vocal opponent of the Vietnam War, he was targeted by Nixon for defeat in 1970; he ultimately lost to the Conservative Party's James Buckley (brother of William F. Buckley ). Mark Hatfield, governor of Oregon from 1959-1967 and senator from Oregon from 1967-1997, was considered too liberal for most Republicans and was rejected by Nixon over Spiro Agnew for Vice President. Jack Kemp, football player turned New York Congressman, George H. W. Bush 's HUD Secretary and Bob Dole's running mate in 1996. While a staunch champion of supply side economics, he was consistently liberal on racial issues, especially affirmative action and immigration reform. This led Kemp's fellow Republicans to brand him ""the bleeding heart conservative. ""Henry Kissinger was Rockefeller's foreign policy adviser until Nixon recruited him away with an offer as National Security Adviser. Kissinger voted for Rockefeller over Nixon in the 1960 and 1968 primaries. John Lindsay, Mayor of New York City from 1966-1973. The original limousine liberal, Lindsay became a Democrat for his quixotic Presidential bid in 1972. Henry Cabot Lodge Jr., Senator from Massachusetts, Eisenhower's UN Ambassador and later John F. Kennedy 's Ambassador to South Vietnam. Also, Nixon's gaffe-prone running mate in 1960 and Chief Negotiator to the Paris Peace talks with North Vietnam after 1968. Pete Mc Closkey, California Congressman from 1967-1983. A vocal critic of Vietnam, he challenged Nixon's reelection in 1972 and was the first Republican to call for Nixon's impeachment. He also derailed Pat Robertson 's presidential bid in 1988 by exposing Robertson's wartime ""heroics"" as a fraud. Richard Nixon. While he ran as a right-wing "" Silent Majority "" warrior, he governed from the center, and by modern standards (as noted by people like Noam Chomsky [3] and Bruce Bartlett [4]) he would be seen as a liberal. Charles H. Percy, Senator from Illinois from 1967-1985. First gained prominence as an advocate for low-income housing and remained extremely liberal on racial issues throughout his career. Nelson Rockefeller. [citation NOT needed]George Romney, Governor of Michigan from 1963-1969 and Nixon's HUD Secretary, known for his devotion to civil rights. [5] His 1968 presidential bid was upended by his criticism of the Vietnam War, specifically his comment that he'd been ""brainwashed"" by military and diplomatic officials about the war. Richard Schweiker, Pennsylvania Senator from 1969-1981; in 1976 Ronald Reagan offered the Vice Presidency to Schweiker in a bid to win the Pennsylvania delegation away from incumbent Gerald Ford, and create a liberal-conservative east-west Republican coalition; Schweiker later took the liberal panty-waist position of Secretary of Health and Human Services under Reagan which Reagan took a meat-axe to. [6]Hugh Scott, Senator from Pennsylvania from 1959-1977. Pretty much the archetypical Rockefeller Republican: pro-civil rights, pro-public housing, anti-Nixon, hawkish on foreign policy, a critic of the Vietnam War. William Scranton, Governor of Pennsylvania from 1963-1967 who challenged Barry Goldwater 's nomination in 1964. Later chaired the Scranton Commission to investigate the Kent State shootings and served as Ford's UN Ambassador. Margaret Chase Smith, Senator from Maine best-known as the first Republican to publicly denounce Joe Mc Carthy. She was also the first woman to campaign for a major party's presidential nomination in 1964. Harold Stassen. Before becoming a perennial presidential candidate, Stassen was a progressive Governor of Minnesota, signatory of the United Nations Charter and an aide to Eisenhower. Earl Warren. Wendell Willkie, Indiana businessman, economist and 1940 Presidential candidate. He won the Republican nomination during a brokered convention; he endorsed intervention in World War II when most Republicans remained isolationist, and became an Ambassador-at-large for FDR after the election. Where are they now? [ edit]They are largely gone, having been driven out by the rise of neoconservatism, neoliberalism, and the Religious Right, as well as by the tax revolts of the 1970s. Today's ""moderate"" Republicans (like Olympia Snowe, Arnold Schwarzenegger, and Chris Christie) are often dismissed as "" RINOs "" by the activist ""movement conservatives"" that have taken over the GOP since Reagan, despite said so-called RINOs not really being that much different on overall substance. As a result, what had once been among the most solidly Republican areas of the country, like New Jersey and western New England, are now among the most solidly Democratic, as these areas were hotbeds of the Rockefeller wing of the party. The endangered species status has also been placed in states of the Upper Midwest, where Rockefellers used to be similarly prevalent. During the 1964 Republican primary in which Goldwater was opposed by Nelson Rockefeller himself, Rockefeller's campaign manager asked him to ""summon that fabled nexus of money, influence, and condescension known as the Eastern Establishment [i.e., liberal Republicans]."" The candidate's reply: ""You're looking at it, buddy. I'm all that is left."" [7]Today it can effectively be argued that the centrist wing of the Democratic Party ( Bill Clinton, Barack Obama) is most similar to the Rockefeller Republicans in policy and ideology. Indeed, in the world that is not the United States, Obama has been compared to the ""one nation Toryism "" of Benjamin Disraeli, [8] and he's even been explicitly linked to old-styled Rockefeller Republicans. [9] [10] [11]2016 Republican candidate for President Donald Trump is considered by some to be a moderate Republican, [12] [13] (albeit in an admittedly weird way). However, his outstanding flip-flop populism and definite Alt-right quirks disqualify him from being counted as a Rockefeller Republican outright. Also, neither Rockefeller nor any other Rockefeller Republican were openly racist and enjoyed the endorsement of David Duke. Maybe Trump will one day be remembered as the first ""Trump Republican"", but that won't necessarily be a good thing. See also [ edit]Blue Dog Democrats Cloth coat Republican RINORadical Republicans South Park Republicans Very Serious People (Rockefeller Republicans are quite popular among such types)Wikipedia had an article on the Main Street Republican Caucus, the heirs of the Rockefeller Republican tradition. References [ edit]↑ For the time, though arguably some of their tax policy would be regarded as liberalism if suggested in the US today.↑ He was appointed to fill Robert Kennedy 's seat after Kennedy's assassination↑ Conetta, Christine. ""Noam Chomsky: Richard Nixon Was 'Last Liberal President'."" The Huffington Post, 21 February 2014 (recovered 4 September 2015).↑ Bartlett, Bruce. ""Barack Obama: The Democrats' Richard Nixon?"" The Fiscal Times, 22 July 2011 (recovered 4 September 2015).↑ His son, sadly, never lived up to the family name.↑ The Reagan Election and Mandate: Their Fiscal Policy Implications for the Welfare State, James Fendrich & Douglas St. Angelo, The Journal of Sociology and Social Welfare, Vol.8 Issue 3, December 2014, pp. 12-18 pdf.↑ Richard Norton Smith, On His Own Terms: A Life of Nelson Rockefeller (2014) p. xxi.↑ Is Barack Obama a Tory?, BBC↑ Cheer Up, Republicans, Slate↑ Barack Obama, Left Conservative, The New Yorker↑ How Liberal is President Obama?, The New York Times↑ [1]↑ [2]Category: United States politics "
1169596	the function of a keyboard and mouse	D337293	Computer mouse	"From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia (Redirected from Mouse (computing))navigation search This article is about the item of computer hardware. For the pointer it controls, see Pointer (user interface). A computer mouse with the most common features: two buttons (left and right) and a scroll wheel, which can also act as a third button. A computer mouse is a hand-held pointing device that detects two-dimensional motion relative to a surface. This motion is typically translated into the motion of a pointer on a display, which allows a smooth control of the graphical user interface. The first public demonstration of a mouse controlling a computer system was in 1968. Originally wired to a computer, modern mice are often cordless, relying on short-range radio communication with the connected system. Mice originally used a ball rolling on a surface to detect motion, but modern mice often have optical sensors that have no moving parts. In addition to moving a cursor, computer mice have one or more buttons to allow operations such as selection of a menu item on a display. Mice often also feature other elements, such as touch surfaces and ""wheels"", which enable additional control and dimensional input. Contents [ hide ]1 Naming2 History3 Operation3.1 Mouse gestures3.2 Specific uses4 Variants4.1 Mechanical mice4.2 Optical and laser mice4.3 Inertial and gyroscopic mice4.4 3D mice4.5 Tactile mice4.6 Pucks4.7 Ergonomic mice4.8 Gaming mice5 Connectivity and communication protocols5.1 Early mice5.2 Serial interface and protocol5.3 Apple Desktop Bus5.4 PS/2 interface and protocol5.5 USB5.6 Cordless or wireless6 Multiple-mouse systems7 Buttons8 Scrolling9 Mouse speed10 Mousepads11 In the marketplace12 Use in games12.1 First-person shooters12.2 Home consoles13 See also14 References15 Further reading16 External links Naming [ edit]The earliest known publication of the term mouse as referring to a computer pointing device is in Bill English's July 1965 publication, ""Computer-Aided Display Control"". [1] [2] [3]The plural for the small rodent is always ""mice"" in modern usage. The plural of a computer mouse is ""mouses"" and ""mice"" according to most dictionaries, but ""mice"" being more common. [4] The first recorded plural usage is ""mice""; the online Oxford Dictionaries cites a 1984 use, and earlier uses include J. C. R. Licklider 's ""The Computer as a Communication Device"" of 1968. [5] The term computer mouses may be used informally in some cases. Although, the plural of mouse (small furry creature) is mice, the two words have undergone a differentiation through usage. History [ edit]The trackball, a related pointing device, was invented in 1946 by Ralph Benjamin as part of a post- World War II -era fire-control radar plotting system called Comprehensive Display System (CDS). Benjamin was then working for the British Royal Navy Scientific Service. Benjamin's project used analog computers to calculate the future position of target aircraft based on several initial input points provided by a user with a joystick. Benjamin felt that a more elegant input device was needed and invented what they called a ""roller ball"" for this purpose. [6] [7]The device was patented in 1947, [7] but only a prototype using a metal ball rolling on two rubber-coated wheels was ever built, and the device was kept as a military secret. [6]Another early trackball was built by British electrical engineer Kenyon Taylor in collaboration with Tom Cranston and Fred Longstaff. Taylor was part of the original Ferranti Canada, working on the Royal Canadian Navy 's DATAR (Digital Automated Tracking and Resolving) system in 1952. [8]DATAR was similar in concept to Benjamin's display. The trackball used four disks to pick up motion, two each for the X and Y directions. Several rollers provided mechanical support. When the ball was rolled, the pickup discs spun and contacts on their outer rim made periodic contact with wires, producing pulses of output with each movement of the ball. By counting the pulses, the physical movement of the ball could be determined. A digital computer calculated the tracks and sent the resulting data to other ships in a task force using pulse-code modulation radio signals. This trackball used a standard Canadian five-pin bowling ball. It was not patented, since it was a secret military project. [9] [10]Early mouse patents. From left to right: Opposing track wheels by Engelbart, November 1970, U. S. Patent 3,541,541. Ball and wheel by Rider, September 1974, U. S. Patent 3,835,464. Ball and two rollers with spring by Opocensky, October 1976, U. S. Patent 3,987,685Douglas Engelbart of the Stanford Research Institute (now SRI International) has been credited in published books by Thierry Bardini, [11] Paul Ceruzzi, [12]Howard Rheingold, [13] and several others [14] [15] [16] as the inventor of the computer mouse. Engelbart was also recognized as such in various obituary titles after his death in July 2013. [17] [18] [19] [20]By 1963, Engelbart had already established a research lab at SRI, the Augmentation Research Center (ARC), to pursue his objective of developing both hardware and software computer technology to ""augment"" human intelligence. That November, while attending a conference on computer graphics in Reno, Nevada, Engelbart began to ponder how to adapt the underlying principles of the planimeter to X-Y coordinate input. [11] On November 14, 1963, he first recorded his thoughts in his personal notebook about something he initially called a ""bug,"" which in a ""3-point"" form could have a ""drop point and 2 orthogonal wheels."" [11] He wrote that the ""bug"" would be ""easier"" and ""more natural"" to use, and unlike a stylus, it would stay still when let go, which meant it would be ""much better for coordination with the keyboard."" [11]In 1964, Bill English joined ARC, where he helped Engelbart build the first mouse prototype. [2] [21] They christened the device the mouse as early models had a cord attached to the rear part of the device which looked like a tail, and in turn resembled the common mouse. [22] As noted above, this ""mouse"" was first mentioned in print in a July 1965 report, on which English was the lead author. [1] [2] [3] On 9 December 1968, Engelbart publicly demonstrated the mouse at what would come to be known as The Mother of All Demos. Engelbart never received any royalties for it, as his employer SRI held the patent, which expired before the mouse became widely used in personal computers. [23] In any event, the invention of the mouse was just a small part of Engelbart's much larger project of augmenting human intellect. [24] [25]Inventor Douglas Engelbart holding the first computer mouse, [26] showing the wheels that make contact with the working surface The Engelbart mouse Several other experimental pointing-devices developed for Engelbart's o N-Line System ( NLS) exploited different body movements – for example, head-mounted devices attached to the chin or nose – but ultimately the mouse won out because of its speed and convenience. [27] The first mouse, a bulky device (pictured) used two potentiometers perpendicular to each other and connected to wheels: the rotation of each wheel translated into motion along one axis. [28] At the time of the ""Mother of All Demos"", Engelbart's group had been using their second generation, 3-button mouse for about a year. On October 2, 1968, a mouse device named Rollkugel (German for ""rolling ball"") was described as an optional device for its SIG-100 terminal was developed by the German company Telefunken. [29] As the name suggests and unlike Engelbart's mouse, the Telefunken model already had a ball. It was based on an earlier trackball-like device (also named Rollkugel) that was embedded into radar flight control desks. This trackball had been developed by a team led by Rainer Mallebrein at Telefunken Konstanz for the German Bundesanstalt für Flugsicherung as part of their TR 86 process computer system with its SIG 100-86 [29] [30] vector graphics terminal. The ball-based computer mouse with a Telefunken Rollkugel RKS 100-86 for the TR 86 computer system When the development for the Telefunken main frame TR 440 ( de) began in 1965, Mallebrein and his team came up with the idea of ""reversing"" the existing Rollkugel into a moveable mouse-like device, so that customers did not have to be bothered with mounting holes for the earlier trackball device. Together with light pens and trackballs, it was offered as an optional input device for their system since 1968. Some Rollkugel mouses installed at the Leibniz-Rechenzentrum in Munich in 1972 are well preserved in a museum. [29] [31] Telefunken considered the invention too unimportant to apply for a patent on it. The Xerox Alto was one of the first computers designed for individual use in 1973 and is regarded as the first modern computer to utilize a mouse. [32] Inspired by PARC 's Alto, the Lilith, a computer which had been developed by a team around Niklaus Wirth at ETH Zürich between 1978 and 1980, provided a mouse as well. The third marketed version of an integrated mouse shipped as a part of a computer and intended for personal computer navigation came with the Xerox 8010 Star in 1981. By 1982, the Xerox 8010 was probably the best-known computer with a mouse. The Sun-1 also came with a mouse, and the forthcoming Apple Lisa was rumored to use one, but the peripheral remained obscure; Jack Hawley of The Mouse House reported that one buyer for a large organization believed at first that his company sold lab mice. Hawley, who manufactured mice for Xerox, stated that ""Practically, I have the market all to myself right now""; a Hawley mouse cost $415. [33] That year Microsoft made the decision to make the MS-DOS program Microsoft Word mouse-compatible, and developed the first PC-compatible mouse. Microsoft's mouse shipped in 1983, thus beginning the Microsoft Hardware division of the company. [34] However, the mouse remained relatively obscure until the appearance of the Macintosh 128K (which included an updated version of the Lisa Mouse) in 1984, [35] and of the Amiga 1000 and the Atari ST in 1985. Operation [ edit]Further information: Point and click A mouse typically controls the motion of a pointer in two dimensions in a graphical user interface (GUI). The mouse turns movements of the hand backward and forward, left and right into equivalent electronic signals that in turn are used to move the pointer. The relative movements of the mouse on the surface are applied to the position of the pointer on the screen, which signals the point where actions of the user take place, so hand movements are replicated by the pointer. [36] Clicking or hovering (stopping movement while the cursor is within the bounds of an area) can select files, programs or actions from a list of names, or (in graphical interfaces) through small images called ""icons"" and other elements. For example, a text file might be represented by a picture of a paper notebook and clicking while the cursor hovers this icon might cause a text editing program to open the file in a window. Different ways of operating the mouse cause specific things to happen in the GUI: [36]Click: pressing and releasing a button. (left) Single-click: clicking the main button. (left) Double-click: clicking the button two times in quick succession counts as a different gesture than two separate single clicks. (left) Triple-click: clicking the button three times in quick succession counts as a different gesture than three separate single clicks. Triple clicks are far less common in traditional navigation. Right-click: clicking the secondary button, or clicking with two fingers. (This brings a menu with different options depending on the software)Middle-click: clicking the tertiary button. Drag and drop: pressing and holding a button, then moving the mouse without releasing. (Using the command "" drag with the right mouse button "" instead of just ""drag"" when one instructs a user to drag an object while holding the right mouse button down instead of the more commonly used left mouse button. )Mouse button chording (a.k.a. Rocker navigation). Combination of right-click then left-click. Combination of left-click then right-click or keyboard letter. Combination of left or right-click and the mouse wheel. Clicking while holding down a modifier key. Moving the pointer a long distance: When a practical limit of mouse movement is reached, one lifts up the mouse, brings it to the opposite edge of the working area while it is held above the surface, and then replaces it down onto the working surface. This is often not necessary, because acceleration software detects fast movement, and moves the pointer significantly faster in proportion than for slow mouse motion. Multi-touch: this method is similar to a multi-touch trackpad on a laptop with support for tap input for multiple fingers, the most famous example being the Apple Magic Mouse. Mouse gestures [ edit]Main article: Pointing device gesture Users can also employ mice gesturally; meaning that a stylized motion of the mouse cursor itself, called a "" gesture "", can issue a command or map to a specific action. For example, in a drawing program, moving the mouse in a rapid ""x"" motion over a shape might delete the shape. Gestural interfaces occur more rarely than plain pointing-and-clicking; and people often find them more difficult to use, because they require finer motor control from the user. However, a few gestural conventions have become widespread, including the drag and drop gesture, in which: The user presses the mouse button while the mouse cursor hovers over an interface object The user moves the cursor to a different location while holding the button down The user releases the mouse button For example, a user might drag-and-drop a picture representing a file onto a picture of a trash can, thus instructing the system to delete the file. Standard semantic gestures include: Crossing-based goal Drag and drop Menu traversal Pointing Rollover ( Mouseover)Selection Specific uses [ edit]Other uses of the mouse's input occur commonly in special application-domains. In interactive three-dimensional graphics, the mouse's motion often translates directly into changes in the virtual objects' or camera's orientation. For example, in the first-person shooter genre of games (see below), players usually employ the mouse to control the direction in which the virtual player's ""head"" faces: moving the mouse up will cause the player to look up, revealing the view above the player's head. A related function makes an image of an object rotate, so that all sides can be examined. 3D design and animation software often modally chords many different combinations to allow objects and cameras to be rotated and moved through space with the few axes of movement mice can detect. When mice have more than one button, the software may assign different functions to each button. Often, the primary (leftmost in a right-handed configuration) button on the mouse will select items, and the secondary (rightmost in a right-handed) button will bring up a menu of alternative actions applicable to that item. For example, on platforms with more than one button, the Mozilla web browser will follow a link in response to a primary button click, will bring up a contextual menu of alternative actions for that link in response to a secondary-button click, and will often open the link in a new tab or window in response to a click with the tertiary (middle) mouse button. Variants [ edit]Mechanical mice [ edit]Operating an opto-mechanical mouse Moving the mouse turns the ball. X and Y rollers grip the ball and transfer movement. Optical encoding disks include light holes. Infrared LEDs shine through the disks. Sensors gather light pulses to convert to X and Y vectors. The German company Telefunken published on their early ball mouse on 2 October 1968. [29] Telefunken's mouse was sold as optional equipment for their computer systems. Bill English, builder of Engelbart's original mouse, [37] created a ball mouse in 1972 while working for Xerox PARC. [38]The ball mouse replaced the external wheels with a single ball that could rotate in any direction. It came as part of the hardware package of the Xerox Alto computer. Perpendicular chopper wheels housed inside the mouse's body chopped beams of light on the way to light sensors, thus detecting in their turn the motion of the ball. This variant of the mouse resembled an inverted trackball and became the predominant form used with personal computers throughout the 1980s and 1990s. The Xerox PARC group also settled on the modern technique of using both hands to type on a full-size keyboard and grabbing the mouse when required. Mechanical mouse, shown with the top cover removed. The scroll wheel is gray, to the right of the ball. The ball mouse has two freely rotating rollers. These are located 90 degrees apart. One roller detects the forward–backward motion of the mouse and other the left–right motion. Opposite the two rollers is a third one (white, in the photo, at 45 degrees) that is spring-loaded to push the ball against the other two rollers. Each roller is on the same shaft as an encoder wheel that has slotted edges; the slots interrupt infrared light beams to generate electrical pulses that represent wheel movement. Each wheel's disc has a pair of light beams, located so that a given beam becomes interrupted or again starts to pass light freely when the other beam of the pair is about halfway between changes. Simple logic circuits interpret the relative timing to indicate which direction the wheel is rotating. This incremental rotary encoder scheme is sometimes called quadrature encoding of the wheel rotation, as the two optical sensors produce signals that are in approximately quadrature phase. The mouse sends these signals to the computer system via the mouse cable, directly as logic signals in very old mice such as the Xerox mice, and via a data-formatting IC in modern mice. The driver software in the system converts the signals into motion of the mouse cursor along X and Y axes on the computer screen. Hawley Mark II Mice from the Mouse House The ball is mostly steel, with a precision spherical rubber surface. The weight of the ball, given an appropriate working surface under the mouse, provides a reliable grip so the mouse's movement is transmitted accurately. Ball mice and wheel mice were manufactured for Xerox by Jack Hawley, doing business as The Mouse House in Berkeley, California, starting in 1975. [39] [40] Based on another invention by Jack Hawley, proprietor of the Mouse House, Honeywell produced another type of mechanical mouse. [41] [42] Instead of a ball, it had two wheels rotating at off axes. Key Tronic later produced a similar product. [43]Modern computer mice took form at the École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL) under the inspiration of Professor Jean-Daniel Nicoud and at the hands of engineer and watchmaker André Guignard. [44] This new design incorporated a single hard rubber mouseball and three buttons, and remained a common design until the mainstream adoption of the scroll-wheel mouse during the 1990s. [45] In 1985, René Sommer added a microprocessor to Nicoud's and Guignard's design. [46] Through this innovation, Sommer is credited with inventing a significant component of the mouse, which made it more ""intelligent""; [46] though optical mice from Mouse Systems had incorporated microprocessors by 1984. [47]Another type of mechanical mouse, the ""analog mouse"" (now generally regarded as obsolete), uses potentiometers rather than encoder wheels, and is typically designed to be plug compatible with an analog joystick. The ""Color Mouse"", originally marketed by Radio Shack for their Color Computer (but also usable on MS-DOS machines equipped with analog joystick ports, provided the software accepted joystick input) was the best-known example. Optical and laser mice [ edit]The underside of an optical mouse. Main article: Optical mouse Optical mice rely entirely on one or more light-emitting diodes (LEDs) and an imaging array of photodiodes to detect movement relative to the underlying surface, eschewing the internal moving parts a mechanical mouse uses in addition to its optics. A laser mouse is an optical mouse that uses coherent (laser) light. The earliest optical mice detected movement on pre-printed mousepad surfaces, whereas the modern LED optical mouse works on most opaque diffuse surfaces; it is usually unable to detect movement on specular surfaces like polished stone. Laser diodes are also used for better resolution and precision, improving performance on opaque specular surfaces. Battery powered, wireless optical mice flash the LED intermittently to save power, and only glow steadily when movement is detected. Inertial and gyroscopic mice [ edit]Often called ""air mice"" since they do not require a surface to operate, inertial mice use a tuning fork or other accelerometer (US Patent 4787051 [48]) to detect rotary movement for every axis supported. The most common models (manufactured by Logitech and Gyration) work using 2 degrees of rotational freedom and are insensitive to spatial translation. The user requires only small wrist rotations to move the cursor, reducing user fatigue or "" gorilla arm "". Usually cordless, they often have a switch to deactivate the movement circuitry between use, allowing the user freedom of movement without affecting the cursor position. A patent for an inertial mouse claims that such mice consume less power than optically based mice, and offer increased sensitivity, reduced weight and increased ease-of-use. [49] In combination with a wireless keyboard an inertial mouse can offer alternative ergonomic arrangements which do not require a flat work surface, potentially alleviating some types of repetitive motion injuries related to workstation posture.3D mice [ edit]Also known as bats, [50] flying mice, or wands, [51] these devices generally function through ultrasound and provide at least three degrees of freedom. Probably the best known example would be 3Dconnexion ("" Logitech 's Space Mouse"") from the early 1990s. In the late 1990s Kantek introduced the 3D Ring Mouse. This wireless mouse was worn on a ring around a finger, which enabled the thumb to access three buttons. The mouse was tracked in three dimensions by a base station. [52] Despite a certain appeal, it was finally discontinued because it did not provide sufficient resolution. One example of a 2000s consumer 3D pointing device is the Wii Remote. While primarily a motion-sensing device (that is, it can determine its orientation and direction of movement), Wii Remote can also detect its spatial position by comparing the distance and position of the lights from the IR emitter using its integrated IR camera (since the nunchuk accessory lacks a camera, it can only tell its current heading and orientation). The obvious drawback to this approach is that it can only produce spatial coordinates while its camera can see the sensor bar. More accurate consumer devices have since been released, including the Play Station Move, the Razer Hydra and the controllers part of the HTC Vive virtual reality system. All of these devices can accurately detect position and orientation in 3D space regardless of angle relative to the sensor station. [ citation needed]A mouse-related controller called the Space Ball [53] has a ball placed above the work surface that can easily be gripped. With spring-loaded centering, it sends both translational as well as angular displacements on all six axes, in both directions for each. In November 2010 a German Company called Axsotic introduced a new concept of 3D mouse called 3D Spheric Mouse. This new concept of a true six degree-of-freedom input device uses a ball to rotate in 3 axes without any limitations. [54]Various setups for 3D mice Logitech spacemouse 3D. On display at the Bolo Computer Museum, EPFL, Lausanne Silicon Graphics Space Ball model 1003 (1988), allowing manipulation of objects with six degrees of freedom. Logitech 3D Mouse (1990), the first ultrasonic mouse Tactile mice [ edit]In 2000, Logitech introduced a ""tactile mouse"" that contained a small actuator to make the mouse vibrate. Such a mouse can augment user-interfaces with haptic feedback, such as giving feedback when crossing a window boundary. To surf by touch requires the user to be able to feel depth or hardness; this ability was realized with the first electrorheological tactile mice [55] but never marketed. Pucks [ edit]Tablet digitizers are sometimes used with accessories called pucks, devices which rely on absolute positioning, but can be configured for sufficiently mouse-like relative tracking that they are sometimes marketed as mice. [56]Ergonomic mice [ edit]A vertical mouse As the name suggests, this type of mouse is intended to provide optimum comfort and avoid injuries such as carpal tunnel syndrome, arthritis and other repetitive strain injuries. It is designed to fit natural hand position and movements, to reduce discomfort. When holding a typical mouse, ulna and radius bones on the arm are crossed. Some designs attempt to place the palm more vertically, so the bones take more natural parallel position. [57] Some limit wrist movement, encouraging to use arm instead that may be less precise but more optimal from the health point of view. A mouse may be angled from the thumb downward to the opposite side – this is known to reduce wrist pronation. [58] However such optimizations make the mouse right or left hand specific, making more problematic to change the tired hand. Time magazine has criticized manufacturers for offering few or no left-handed ergonomic mice: ""Oftentimes I felt like I was dealing with someone who’d never actually met a left-handed person before."" [59]Keyboard with roller bar mouse Another solution is a pointing bar device. The so-called roller bar mouse is positioned snugly in front of the keyboard, thus allowing bi-manual accessibility. [60]Gaming mice [ edit]These mice are specifically designed for use in computer games. They typically employ a wide array of controls and buttons and have designs that differ radically from traditional mice. It is also common for gaming mice, especially those designed for use in real-time strategy games such as Star Craft, or in multiplayer online battle arena games such as Dota 2 to have a relatively high sensitivity, measured in dots per inch (DPI). [61] Some advanced mice from gaming manufacturers also allow users to customize the weight of the mouse by adding or subtracting weights to allow for easier control. [62] Ergonomic quality is also an important factor in gaming mice, as extended gameplay times may render further use of the mouse to be uncomfortable. Some mice have been designed to have adjustable features such as removable and/or elongated palm rests, horizontally adjustable thumb rests and pinky rests. Some mice may include several different rests with their products to ensure comfort for a wider range of target consumers. [63] Gaming mice are held by gamers in three styles of grip: [64] [65]Palm Grip: the hand rests on the mouse, with extended fingers. [66]Claw Grip: palm rests on the mouse, bent fingers. [67]Finger-Tip Grip: bent fingers, palm doesn't touch the mouse. [68]Connectivity and communication protocols [ edit]A Microsoft wireless Arc Mouse, marketed as ""travel-friendly"" and foldable but otherwise operated exactly like other 3-button wheel-based optical mice To transmit their input, typical cabled mice use a thin electrical cord terminating in a standard connector, such as RS-232 C, PS/2, ADB or USB. Cordless mice instead transmit data via infrared radiation (see Ir DA) or radio (including Bluetooth ), although many such cordless interfaces are themselves connected through the aforementioned wired serial buses. While the electrical interface and the format of the data transmitted by commonly available mice is currently standardized on USB, in the past it varied between different manufacturers. A bus mouse used a dedicated interface card for connection to an IBM PC or compatible computer. Mouse use in DOS applications became more common after the introduction of the Microsoft Mouse, largely because Microsoft provided an open standard for communication between applications and mouse driver software. Thus, any application written to use the Microsoft standard could use a mouse with a driver that implements the same API, even if the mouse hardware itself was incompatible with Microsoft's. This driver provides the state of the buttons and the distance the mouse has moved in units that its documentation calls "" mickeys "", [69] as does the Allegro library. [70]Early mice [ edit]The earliest mass-market mice, such as on the original Macintosh, Amiga, and Atari ST mice used a D-subminiature 9-pin connector to send the quadrature encoded X and Y axis signals directly, plus one pin per mouse button. The mouse was a simple optomechanical device, and the deciding circuitry was all in the main computer. The DE-9 connectors were designed to be electrically compatible with the joysticks popular on numerous 8-bit systems, such as the Commodore 64 and the Atari 2600. Although the ports could be used for both purposes, the signals must be interpreted differently. As a result, plugging a mouse into a joystick port causes the ""joystick"" to continuously move in some direction, even if the mouse stays still, whereas plugging a joystick into a mouse port causes the ""mouse"" to only be able to move a single pixel in each direction. Serial interface and protocol [ edit]Because the IBM PC did not have a quadrature decoder built in, early PC mice used the RS-232 C serial port to communicate encoded mouse movements, as well as provide power to the mouse's circuits. The Mouse Systems Corporation version used a five-byte protocol and supported three buttons. The Microsoft version used a three-byte protocol and supported two buttons. Due to the incompatibility between the two protocols, some manufacturers sold serial mice with a mode switch: ""PC"" for MSC mode, ""MS"" for Microsoft mode. [71]Apple Desktop Bus [ edit]Apple Macintosh Plus mice: beige mouse (left), platinum mouse (right), 1986In 1986 Apple first implemented the Apple Desktop Bus allowing the daisy-chaining together of up to 16 devices, including arbitrarily many mice and other devices on the same bus with no configuration whatsoever. Featuring only a single data pin, the bus used a purely polled approach to computer/mouse communications and survived as the standard on mainstream models (including a number of non-Apple workstations) until 1998 when i Mac joined the industry-wide switch to using USB. Beginning with the Bronze Keyboard Power Book G3 in May 1999, Apple dropped the external ADB port in favor of USB, but retained an internal ADB connection in the Power Book G4 for communication with its built-in keyboard and trackpad until early 2005. PS/2 interface and protocol [ edit]Further information: PS/2 connector Color-coded PS/2 connection ports; purple for keyboard and green for mouse With the arrival of the IBM PS/2 personal-computer series in 1987, IBM introduced the eponymous PS/2 interface for mice and keyboards, which other manufacturers rapidly adopted. The most visible change was the use of a round 6-pin mini-DIN, in lieu of the former 5-pin connector. In default mode (called stream mode) a PS/2 mouse communicates motion, and the state of each button, by means of 3-byte packets. [72] For any motion, button press or button release event, a PS/2 mouse sends, over a bi-directional serial port, a sequence of three bytes, with the following format: Bit 7 Bit 6 Bit 5 Bit 4 Bit 3 Bit 2 Bit 1 Bit 0Byte 1 YV XV YS XS 1 MB RB LBByte 2 X movement Byte 3 Y movement Here, XS and YS represent the sign bits of the movement vectors, XV and YV indicate an overflow in the respective vector component, and LB, MB and RB indicate the status of the left, middle and right mouse buttons (1 = pressed). PS/2 mice also understand several commands for reset and self-test, switching between different operating modes, and changing the resolution of the reported motion vectors. A Microsoft Intelli Mouse relies on an extension of the PS/2 protocol: the Im PS/2 or IMPS/2 protocol (the abbreviation combines the concepts of ""Intelli Mouse"" and ""PS/2""). It initially operates in standard PS/2 format, for backwards compatibility. After the host sends a special command sequence, it switches to an extended format in which a fourth byte carries information about wheel movements. The Intelli Mouse Explorer works analogously, with the difference that its 4-byte packets also allow for two additional buttons (for a total of five). [73]Mouse vendors also use other extended formats, often without providing public documentation. The Typhoon mouse uses 6-byte packets which can appear as a sequence of two standard 3-byte packets, such that an ordinary PS/2 driver can handle them. [74] For 3-D (or 6-degree-of-freedom) input, vendors have made many extensions both to the hardware and to software. In the late 1990s, Logitech created ultrasound based tracking which gave 3D input to a few millimeters accuracy, which worked well as an input device but failed as a profitable product. In 2008, Motion4U introduced its ""Opti Burst"" system using IR tracking for use as a Maya (graphics software) plugin. USB [ edit]The industry-standard USB (Universal Serial Bus) protocol and its connector have become widely used for mice; it is among the most popular types. [75]Cordless or wireless [ edit]Cordless or wireless mice transmit data via infrared radiation (see Ir DA) or radio (including Bluetooth and Wi-Fi ). The receiver is connected to the computer through a serial or USB port, or can be built in (as is sometimes the case with Bluetooth and Wi Fi [76] ). Modern non-Bluetooth and non-Wi Fi wireless mice use USB receivers. Some of these can be stored inside the mouse for safe transport while not in use, while other, newer mice use newer "" nano "" receivers, designed to be small enough to remain plugged into a laptop during transport, while still being large enough to easily remove. [77]The Logitech Metaphor, the first wireless mouse (1984). On display at the Musée Bolo, EPFLA Microsoft wireless mouse made for notebook computers Microsoft Bluetooth Mobile Mouse 3600Multiple-mouse systems [ edit]Some systems allow two or more mice to be used at once as input devices. Late-1980s era home computers such as the Amiga used this to allow computer games with two players interacting on the same computer ( Lemmings and The Settlers for example). The same idea is sometimes used in collaborative software, e.g. to simulate a whiteboard that multiple users can draw on without passing a single mouse around. Microsoft Windows, since Windows 98, has supported multiple simultaneous pointing devices. Because Windows only provides a single screen cursor, using more than one device at the same time requires cooperation of users or applications designed for multiple input devices. Multiple mice are often used in multi-user gaming in addition to specially designed devices that provide several input interfaces. Windows also has full support for multiple input/mouse configurations for multi-user environments. Starting with Windows XP, Microsoft introduced a SDK for developing applications that allow multiple input devices to be used at the same time with independent cursors and independent input points. [78]The introduction of Vista and Microsoft Surface (now known as Microsoft Pixel Sense) introduced a new set of input APIs that were adopted into Windows 7, allowing for 50 points/cursors, all controlled by independent users. The new input points provide traditional mouse input; however, they were designed with other input technologies like touch and image in mind. They inherently offer 3D coordinates along with pressure, size, tilt, angle, mask, and even an image bitmap to see and recognize the input point/object on the screen. As of 2009, Linux distributions and other operating systems that use X. Org, such as Open Solaris and Free BSD, support 255 cursors/input points through Multi-Pointer X. However, currently no window managers support Multi-Pointer X leaving it relegated to custom software usage. There have also been propositions of having a single operator use two mice simultaneously as a more sophisticated means of controlling various graphics and multimedia applications. [79]Buttons [ edit]Main article: Mouse button Mouse buttons are microswitches which can be pressed to select or interact with an element of a graphical user interface, producing a distinctive clicking sound. Since around the late 1990s, the three-button scrollmouse has become the de facto standard. Users most commonly employ the second button to invoke a contextual menu in the computer's software user interface, which contains options specifically tailored to the interface element over which the mouse cursor currently sits. By default, the primary mouse button sits located on the left-hand side of the mouse, for the benefit of right-handed users; left-handed users can usually reverse this configuration via software. Scrolling [ edit]Main article: Scroll wheel Nearly all mice now have an integrated input primarily intended for scrolling on top, usually a single-axis digital wheel or rocker switch which can also be depressed to act as a third button. Though less common, many mice instead have two-axis inputs such as a tiltable wheel, trackball, or touchpad. Mouse speed [ edit]Mickeys per second is a unit of measurement for the speed and movement direction of a computer mouse, [69] where direction is often expressed as ""horizontal"" versus ""vertical"" mickey count. However, speed can also refer to the ratio between how many pixels the cursor moves on the screen and how far the mouse moves on the mouse pad, which may be expressed as pixels per mickey, pixels per inch, or pixels per centimeter. The computer industry often measures mouse sensitivity in terms of counts per inch (CPI), commonly expressed as dots per inch (DPI) – the number of steps the mouse will report when it moves one inch. In early mice, this specification was called pulses per inch (ppi). [39] The Mickey originally referred to one of these counts, or one resolvable step of motion. If the default mouse-tracking condition involves moving the cursor by one screen-pixel or dot on-screen per reported step, then the CPI does equate to DPI: dots of cursor motion per inch of mouse motion. The CPI or DPI as reported by manufacturers depends on how they make the mouse; the higher the CPI, the faster the cursor moves with mouse movement. However, software can adjust the mouse sensitivity, making the cursor move faster or slower than its CPI. Current software can change the speed of the cursor dynamically, taking into account the mouse's absolute speed and the movement from the last stop-point. In most software, an example being the Windows platforms, this setting is named ""speed,"" referring to ""cursor precision"". However, some operating systems name this setting ""acceleration"", the typical Apple OS designation. This term is incorrect. Mouse acceleration in most mouse software refers to the change in speed of the cursor over time while the mouse movement is constant. For simple software, when the mouse starts to move, the software will count the number of ""counts"" or ""mickeys"" received from the mouse and will move the cursor across the screen by that number of pixels (or multiplied by a rate factor, typically less than 1). The cursor will move slowly on the screen, with good precision. When the movement of the mouse passes the value set for some threshold, the software will start to move the cursor faster, with a greater rate factor. Usually, the user can set the value of the second rate factor by changing the ""acceleration"" setting. Operating systems sometimes apply acceleration, referred to as "" ballistics "", to the motion reported by the mouse. For example, versions of Windows prior to Windows XP doubled reported values above a configurable threshold, and then optionally doubled them again above a second configurable threshold. These doublings applied separately in the X and Y directions, resulting in very nonlinear response. [80]Mousepads [ edit]Main article: Mousepad Engelbart's original mouse did not require a mousepad; [81] the mouse had two large wheels which could roll on virtually any surface. However, most subsequent mechanical mice starting with the steel roller ball mouse have required a mousepad for optimal performance. The mousepad, the most common mouse accessory, appears most commonly in conjunction with mechanical mice, because to roll smoothly the ball requires more friction than common desk surfaces usually provide. So-called ""hard mousepads"" for gamers or optical/laser mice also exist. Most optical and laser mice do not require a pad. Whether to use a hard or soft mousepad with an optical mouse is largely a matter of personal preference. One exception occurs when the desk surface creates problems for the optical or laser tracking, for example, a transparent or reflective surface. In the marketplace [ edit]Computer mice built between 1986 and 2007Around 1981, Xerox included mice with its Xerox Star, based on the mouse used in the 1970s on the Alto computer at Xerox PARC. Sun Microsystems, Symbolics, Lisp Machines Inc., and Tektronix also shipped workstations with mice, starting in about 1981. Later, inspired by the Star, Apple Computer released the Apple Lisa, which also used a mouse. However, none of these products achieved large-scale success. Only with the release of the Apple Macintosh in 1984 did the mouse see widespread use. [82]The Macintosh design, [83] commercially successful and technically influential, led many other vendors to begin producing mice or including them with their other computer products (by 1986, Atari ST, Amiga, Windows 1.0, GEOS for the Commodore 64, and the Apple IIGS ). [84]The widespread adoption of graphical user interfaces in the software of the 1980s and 1990s made mice all but indispensable for controlling computers. In November 2008, Logitech built their billionth mouse. [85]Use in games [ edit]Logitech G5 laser mouse designed for gaming The Classic Mac OS Desk Accessory Puzzle in 1984 was the first game designed specifically for a mouse. [86] The device often functions as an interface for PC-based computer games and sometimes for video game consoles. First-person shooters [ edit]This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (August 2012) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message)FPSs naturally lend themselves to separate and simultaneous control of the player's movement and aim, and on computers this has traditionally been achieved with a combination of keyboard and mouse. Players use the X-axis of the mouse for looking (or turning) left and right, and the Y-axis for looking up and down; the keyboard is used for movement and supplemental inputs. Many shooting genre players prefer a mouse over a gamepad analog stick because the mouse is a linear input device, which allows for fast and precise control. Holding a stick in a given position produces a corresponding constant movement or rotation, i.e. the output is an integral of the user's input, and requires that time be spent moving to or from its null position before this input can be given; in contrast, the output of a mouse directly and instantaneously corresponds to how far it is moved in a given direction (often multiplied by an ""acceleration"" factor derived from how quickly the mouse is moved). The effect of this is that a mouse is well suited to small, precise movements; large, quick movements; and immediate, responsive movements; all of which are important in shooter gaming. [87] This advantage also extends in varying degrees to similar game styles such as third-person shooters. Some incorrectly ported games or game engines have acceleration and interpolation curves which unintentionally produce excessive, irregular, or even negative acceleration when used with a mouse instead of their native platform's non-mouse default input device. Depending on how deeply hardcoded this misbehavior is, internal user patches or external 3rd-party software may be able to fix it. [88]Due to their similarity to the WIMP desktop metaphor interface for which mice were originally designed, and to their own tabletop game origins, computer strategy games are most commonly played with mice. In particular, real-time strategy and MOBA games usually require the use of a mouse. The left button usually controls primary fire. If the game supports multiple fire modes, the right button often provides secondary fire from the selected weapon. Games with only a single fire mode will generally map secondary fire to ironsights. In some games, the right button may also invoke accessories for a particular weapon, such as allowing access to the scope of a sniper rifle or allowing the mounting of a bayonet or silencer. Gamers can use a scroll wheel for changing weapons (or for controlling scope-zoom magnification, in older games). On most first person shooter games, programming may also assign more functions to additional buttons on mice with more than three controls. A keyboard usually controls movement (for example, WASD for moving forward, left, backward and right, respectively) and other functions such as changing posture. Since the mouse serves for aiming, a mouse that tracks movement accurately and with less lag (latency) will give a player an advantage over players with less accurate or slower mice. In some cases the right mouse button may be used to move the player forward, either in lieu of, or in conjunction with the typical WASD configuration. Many games provide players with the option of mapping their own choice of a key or button to a certain control. An early technique of players, circle strafing, saw a player continuously strafing while aiming and shooting at an opponent by walking in circle around the opponent with the opponent at the center of the circle. Players could achieve this by holding down a key for strafing while continuously aiming the mouse towards the opponent. Games using mice for input are so popular that many manufacturers make mice specifically for gaming. Such mice may feature adjustable weights, high-resolution optical or laser components, additional buttons, ergonomic shape, and other features such as adjustable CPI. Mouse Bungees are typically used with gaming mice because it eliminates the annoyance of the cable. Many games, such as first- or third-person shooters, have a setting named ""invert mouse"" or similar (not to be confused with ""button inversion"", sometimes performed by left-handed users) which allows the user to look downward by moving the mouse forward and upward by moving the mouse backward (the opposite of non-inverted movement). This control system resembles that of aircraft control sticks, where pulling back causes pitch up and pushing forward causes pitch down; computer joysticks also typically emulate this control-configuration. After id Software 's commercial hit of Doom, which did not support vertical aiming, competitor Bungie 's Marathon became the first first-person shooter to support using the mouse to aim up and down. [89] Games using the Build engine had an option to invert the Y-axis. The ""invert"" feature actually made the mouse behave in a manner that users now regard as non-inverted (by default, moving mouse forward resulted in looking down). Soon after, id Software released Quake, which introduced the invert feature as users now know it. Home consoles [ edit]In 1988, the VTech Socrates educational video game console featured a wireless mouse with an attached mouse pad as an optional controller used for some games. In the early 1990s, the Super Nintendo Entertainment System video game system featured a mouse in addition to its controllers. The Mario Paint game in particular used the mouse's capabilities [90] as did its successor on the N64. Sega released official mice for their Genesis/Mega Drive, Saturn and Dreamcast consoles. NEC sold official mice for its PC Engine and PC-FX consoles. Sony released an official mouse product for the Play Station console, included one along with the Linux for Play Station 2 kit, as well as allowing owners to use virtually any USB mouse with the PS2, PS3, and PS4. Nintendo's Wii also had this added on in a later software update, retained on the Wii U. See also [ edit]Electronics portal Computer accessibility Footmouse Graphics tablet Gesture recognition Human–computer interaction (HCI)List of wireless mice with nano receivers Mouse keys Mouse tracking Pointing stick Rotational mouse Computer References [ edit]^ a b Oxford English Dictionary, ""mouse"", sense 13^ a b c Bardini, Thierry (2000). Bootstrapping: Douglas Engelbart, Coevolution, and the Origins of Personal Computing. Stanford: Stanford University Press. p. 98. ISBN 978-0-80473871-2.^ a b English, William K.; Engelbart, Douglas C.; Huddart, Bonnie (July 1965). Computer-Aided Display Control (Final Report). Menlo Park: Stanford Research Institute. p. 6. Retrieved 2017-01-03.^ ""Definition for Mouse"". 2011. Retrieved 2011-07-06.^ Licklider, J. C. R. (April 1968). ""The Computer as a Communication Device"" (PDF). Science and Technology.^ a b Copping, Jasper (2013-07-11). ""Briton: 'I invented the computer mouse 20 years before the Americans ' "". The Telegraph. Retrieved 2013-07-18.^ a b Hill, Peter C. J., ed. (2005-09-16). ""RALPH BENJAMIN: An Interview Conducted by Peter C. J. Hill"" (Interview). Interview #465. IEEE History Center, The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. Retrieved 2013-07-18.^ Vardalas, J. (1994). ""From DATAR to the FP-6000: Technological change in a Canadian industrial context"". IEEE Annals of the History of Computing. 16 (2): 20–30. doi: 10.1109/85.279228.^ Ball, Norman R.; Vardalas, John N. (1993), Ferranti-Packard: Pioneers in Canadian Electrical Manufacturing, Mc Gill-Queen's Press^ ""FP-6000 -- From DATAR To The FP-6000"". ieee.ca.^ a b c d Bardini, Thierry (2000). Bootstrapping: Douglas Engelbart, Coevolution, and the Origins of Personal Computing. Stanford: Stanford University Press. p. 95. ISBN 978-0-80473871-2.^ Ceruzzi, Paul E. (2012). Computing: A Concise History. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. p. 121. ISBN 978-0-26231039-0.^ Rheingold, Howard (2000). The Virtual Community: Homesteading on the Electronic Frontier. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. p. 64. ISBN 978-0-26226110-4.^ Lyon, Matthew; Hafner, Katie (1998). Where Wizards Stay Up Late: The Origins Of The Internet. New York: Simon & Schuster. p. 78. ISBN 978-0-68487216-2.^ Hey, Tony; Pápay, Gyuri (2015). The Computing Universe: A Journey through a Revolution. New York: Cambridge University Press. p. 162. ISBN 978-1-31612322-5.^ Atkinson, Paul (2010). Computer. London: Reaktion Books. p. 63. ISBN 978-1-86189737-4.^ Khazan, Olga (2013-07-03). ""Douglas Engelbart, computer visionary and inventor of the mouse, dies at 88"". Washington Post. WP Company. Retrieved 2017-01-18.^ Markoff, John (2013-07-03). ""Computer Visionary Who Invented the Mouse"". The New York Times. New York: The New York Times Company. Retrieved 2017-01-18.^ Arnold, Laurence (2013-07-03). ""Douglas Engelbart, Computer Mouse Creator, Visionary, Dies at 88"". Bloomberg. Bloomberg L. P. Retrieved 2017-01-18.^ Chappell, Bill. ""Inventor Of Computer Mouse Dies; Doug Engelbart Was 88"". The Two Way: Breaking News from NPR. Washington, D. C.: NPR. Retrieved 2017-01-18.^ Edwards, Benj (2008-12-09). ""The computer mouse turns 40"". Macworld. Retrieved 2009-04-16.^ "" "" Mouses"" vs ""mice "" "". The Ultimate Learn And Resource Center. Retrieved 2017-07-09.^ Maggie, Shiels (2008-07-17). ""Say goodbye to the computer mouse"". BBC News. Retrieved 2008-07-17.^ Engelbart; Landau; Clegg, Evolving Collective Intelligence^ ""The Demo That Changed the World"". Smithsonian Channel. Archived from the original on 2012-12-28. Retrieved 2013-01-03.^ ""First mouse – CERN Courier"". cerncourier.com. Retrieved 2015-06-24.^ Engelbart, Douglas C. (March 1967), Display-Selection Techniques for Text Manipulation, IEEE Transactions on Human Factors in Electronics, pp. 5–15, retrieved 2013-03-26^ Engelbart, Christina. ""Display-Selection Techniques for Text Manipulation - 1967 (AUGMENT, 133184) - Doug Engelbart Institute"". dougengelbart.org. Retrieved 2016-03-15.^ a b c d Bulow, Ralf (2009-04-28). ""Auf den Spuren der deutschen Computermaus"" [In the footsteps of the German computer mouse] (in German). Heise Verlag. Retrieved 2013-01-07.^ ""SIG-100 video terminal and mouse"".^ ""Telefunken's 'Rollkugel ' "". oldmouse.com.^ Gold, Virginia. ""ACM Turing Award Goes to Creator of First Modern Personal Computer"". Association for Computing Machinery. Archived from the original on 2010-03-09. Retrieved 2011-01-11.^ Markoff, John (1982-05-10). ""Computer mice are scurrying out of R&D labs"". Info World. pp. 10–11. Retrieved 2015-08-26.^ ""30 Years Of Microsoft Hardware"". Microsoft. Retrieved 2012-07-15.^ Dvorak, John C. (1984-02-19). ""The Mac Meets the Press"". The San Francisco Examiner.^ a b ""How to Use Your Computer Mouse"". dummies.com. Retrieved 2013-12-11.^ ""Doug Engelbart: Father of the Mouse (interview)"". Retrieved 2007-09-08.^ Wadlow, Thomas A. (September 1981). ""The Xerox Alto Computer"". BYTE. 6 (9): 58–68.^ a b ""The Xerox Mouse Commercialized"". Making the Macintosh: Technology and Culture in Silicon Valley. Archived from the original on 2010-07-21.^ ""Hawley Mark II X063X Mouses"". oldmouse.com.^ ""Honeywell mechanical mouse"". Archived from the original on 2007-04-28. Retrieved 2007-01-31.^ ""Honeywell mouse patent"". Retrieved 2007-09-11.^ ""Keytronic 2HW73-1ES Mouse"". Archived from the original on 2007-09-27. Retrieved 2007-01-31.^ ""Of Mice and Men... and PCs"". News.softpedia.com. 1970-11-17. Retrieved 2017-11-27.^ ""Inventions, computer mouse – the CNN site"". Archived from the original on 2005-04-24. Retrieved 2006-12-31.^ a b ""Computer mouse inventor dies in Vaud"". World Radio Switzerland. 2009-10-14. Archived from the original on 2011-07-07. Retrieved 2009-10-28.^ Caruso, Denise (1984-05-14). ""People"". Info World. Info World Media Group, Inc. 6 (20): 16. ISSN 0199-6649.^ ""Inertial mouse system"". Free Patents Online. 1988. Retrieved 2018-03-23.^ ""Highly Sensitive Inertial Mouse"". Fresh Patents. Retrieved 2006-12-31.^ Bowman, Doug A.; Kruijff, Ernst; Poupyrev, Ivan (2005). 3D user interfaces. Addison-Wesley. p. 111. ISBN 978-0-201-75867-2.^ Krar, Stephen F.; Gill, Arthur (2003). Exploring advanced manufacturing technologies. Industrial Press, Inc. pp. 8–6–4. ISBN 978-0-8311-3150-0.^ ""Kantek Fingers a Better Mouse"". Byte.com. Archived from the original on 2008-12-24. Retrieved 2010-05-29.^ ""Space Ball"". Vrlogic.com. Archived from the original on 2011-07-16. Retrieved 2010-05-29.^ ""axsotic"". axsotic.de. Retrieved 2011-02-09.^ Heckner, T.; Kessler, C.; Egersdörfer, S.; Monkman, G. J. (14–16 June 2006). ""Computer based platform for tactile actuator analysis"". Actuator'06, Bremen.^ "" Digitizer tablet Definition"". PC Magazine. Retrieved 2015-10-19.^ ""Evoluent Vertical Mouse Vertical Mouse ergonomic mouse ergonomic computer mouse carpal tunnel syndrome repetitive stress disorder RSI"". evoluent.com.^ Product Specialists. ""Handshoe Mouse (Original)"". ergocanada.com.^ Mc Cracken, Harry. ""Confessions of a Left-Handed Technology User"". Time. Retrieved 2015-08-15.^ Study at Wichita State University: ""Examining First-Time Usage of the Roller Mouse"" [1], of 2003-12-08, uploaded 2014-07-11^ ""Windows 8 How-to: Mice"". Microsoft Hardware. Microsoft.^ ""Proper use and purpose of mouse weights"". Super User. Retrieved 2013-03-10.^ ""Mad Catz R. A. T. 9 Product Page:"". Retrieved 2014-12-25.^ Adams, Thomas. ""Peripheral Vision: Logitech G600 MMO Gaming Mouse"". Game Zone. Retrieved 2013-08-09.^ ""PC Gaming 101: Mouse Grip Styles"". Digital Storm Online, Inc.^ ""The palm grip"". Ergonomics guide. Razer. Archived from the original on 2013-10-31. Retrieved 2013-08-12.^ ""The claw grip"". Ergonomics guide. Razer. Archived from the original on 2013-04-23. Retrieved 2013-08-12.^ ""The fingertip grip"". Ergonomics guide. Razer. Archived from the original on 2011-10-22. Retrieved 2013-08-12.^ a b ""Interfacing to mouse.sys"". Archived from the original on 2011-08-19. Retrieved 2011-10-08.^ Hargreaves, Shawn; et al. ""Allegro manual: Mouse routines"". Archived from the original on 2012-04-15.^ Free DOS-32 – Serial Mouse driver Archived 2009-03-02 at the Wayback Machine.^ Chapweske, Adam (2003-04-01). ""Computer Engineering Tips – PS/2 Mouse Interface"". Computer-engineering.org. Retrieved 2013-03-10.^ Retrieved 31 December 2006 Archived 2008-04-08 at the Wayback Machine.^ ""Keyboard scancodes: The PS/2 Mouse"". Win.tue.nl. Retrieved 2017-12-08.^ Gan, Jon (November 2007). ""USB: A Technological Success Story"". HWM. SPH Magazines: 114. ISSN 0219-5607.^ ""Targus"". targus.com.^ Johnston, Lisa. ""What Is a Nano Wireless Receiver?"". Retrieved 2010-09-03.^ ""Multipoint Mouse SDK"". Microsoft. Retrieved 2012-08-05.^ Nakamura, S.; Tsukamoto, M.; Nishio, S. (26–28 August 2001). Design and implementation of the double mouse system for a Window environment. IEEE Pacific Rim Conference on Communications, Computers and Signal Processing. 1. IEEE. pp. 204–207. doi: 10.1109/PACRIM.2001.953558.^ ""Pointer ballistics for Windows XP"". Windows Hardware Developer Center Archive. Microsoft. 2002. Retrieved 2010-04-29.^ Guy, Eric ""Unit24"". ""Corepad Victory & Deskpad XXXL"". Archived from the original on 2006-04-06. Retrieved 2007-10-03.^ Chan, Andrew (November 2004). ""The Macintosh Phenomenon: Celebrating Twenty Years of the World's Most Adored Desktop Computers"". HWM: 74–77.^ Gladwell, Malcolm (2011-05-16). ""Creation Myth – Xerox PARC, Apple, and the truth about innovation"". The New Yorker. Retrieved 2011-08-31. The mouse was conceived by the computer scientist Douglas Engelbart, developed by Xerox PARC, and made marketable by Apple^ Booth, Stephen A. (January 1987). ""Colorful New Apple"". Popular Mechanics. 164 (1): 16. ISSN 0032-4558.^ Shiels, Maggie (2008-12-03). ""Logitech's billionth mouse"". BBC News. Retrieved 2010-05-29.^ Mace, Scott (1984-05-07). ""In Praise of Classics"". Info World. p. 56. Retrieved 2015-02-06.^ Chris Klochek and I. Scott Mac Kenzie (2006). Performance measures of game controllers in a three-dimensional environment. Proceedings of Graphics Interface 2006. pp. 73–79. Canadian Information Processing Society. ISBN 1-56881-308-2^ ""Glossary: Mouse acceleration – PCGaming Wiki PCGW – bugs, fixes, crashes, mods, guides and improvements for every PC game"". PCGaming Wiki. Retrieved 2015-07-26.^ ""First Use of Freelook in a FPS"". Guinness World Records. Retrieved 2015-10-17.^ Phillips, Casey (2011-08-19). ""Super Nostalgia: Local Gamers Fondly Remember Super Nintendo on Its 20th Anniversary"". Times Free Press. Retrieved 2015-10-18. Further reading [ edit]Pang, Alex Soojung-Kim, ""Mighty Mouse: In 1980, Apple Computer asked a group of guys fresh from Stanford's product design program to take a $400 device and make it mass-producible, reliable and cheap. Their work transformed personal computing"", Stanford University Alumni Magazine, March/April 2002. Stanford University Mouse Site with stories and annotated archives from Doug Engelbart's work Doug Engelbart Institute mouse resources page includes stories and links Fire-Control and Human-Computer Interaction: Towards a History of the Computer Mouse (1940–1965), by Axel Roch50 Jahre Computer mit der Maus - Öffentliche Veranstaltung am 5. Dezember auf dem Campus Vaihingen (Invitation to a plenum discussion) (in German), Informatik-Forum Stuttgart (infos e. V.), GI- / ACM-Regionalgruppe Stuttgart / Böblingen, Institut für Visualisierung und Interaktive Systeme der Universität Stuttgart and SFB-TRR 161, 2016-11-28, archived from the original on 2017-11-15, retrieved 2017-11-15Borchers, Detlef (2016-12-10), 50 Jahre Mensch-Maschine-Interaktion: Finger oder Kugel? (in German), Heise Online, archived from the original on 2017-11-15, retrieved 2017-11-15Yacoub, Mousa; Turfa, Majd; Maurer, Fabian (2016-08-19). Reverse Engineering of the Computer Mouse RKS 100 (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 2017-11-15. Retrieved 2017-11-15. (NB. Contains some historical photos. )External links [ edit]Wikiversity has learning resources about Mouse (computing)Wikimedia Commons has media related to Computer mouse. The video segment of The Mother of All Demos with Doug Engelbart showing the device from 1968 [ show]v t e Basic computer components [ show]v t e Video game controllers Authority control GND: 4225191-6Categories: American inventions Computer mice History of human–computer interaction Video game control methods Computer-related introductions in 1964 Computing input devices "
1180590	how long do you bake a sweet potato wrapped in foil	D1932483	How to Bake a Sweet Potato in the Oven?	How to Bake a Sweet Potato in the Oven? Share this:2Whole sweet potatoes are a colorful alternative to standard baking potatoes. High in vitamin A and naturally low in calories despite their sweet taste, they’re also a nutritious choice; a small baked sweet potato has only a hundred calories, yet contains more than enough vitamin A to fulfill the body’s daily requirement for it. Shopping and Storage When shopping for sweet potatoes, choose those with unbroken skins and firm flesh. Look for sweet potatoes with a uniform shape; a more regular shape means more even baking. Smaller potatoes are less fibrous than larger ones. Sweet potatoes will keep for about two weeks if stored loose in a cool, dry environment. Preparation Heat the oven to 350 degrees. As the oven heats, give the potatoes a thorough scrub with a vegetable brush before baking. Sweet potato skin is edible, but not as tasty if it has grit or grocers’ wax on it. Pat the sweet potatoes dry and rub them with a light coating of olive oil, butter, or margarine. Prick their skins with a fork several times to allow them to release the steam they’ll produce as they bake. Wrap each potato in its own sheet of aluminum foil. Sweet potatoes can leak some of their sugar during baking despite being foil-wrapped, so transfer the wrapped potatoes to a baking sheet before they go into the oven. Baking The time it takes to bake a sweet potato depends on the size and shape of the potatoes. Small ones should be done in about 45 minutes while medium ones take at least an hour and large ones as much as an hour and a half. The simplest method to check for doneness is to poke each potato with a fork; if the fork slides cleanly and easily into the thickest part of the potato, it’s done. Remove the sweet potatoes from the oven and carefully unwrap them. Give each one a firm pinch across its widest part to loosen the flesh inside. Slit potatoes lengthwise just before serving, fluffing the orange flesh inside with a fork if desired. Serving Baked sweet potatoes are delicious with butter or margarine, but they also go well with sour cream or plain yogurt. For a more savory side dish, top them with sauteed onions or a sprinkling of parmesan cheese. Although they make a delicious main dish or side, sweet potatoes can also double as dessert. Maple syrup, raisins, or honey turn a baked sweet potato into an after-dinner treat. With cinnamon, nutmeg, a dash of brown sugar, and a dollop of whipped cream, they’re reminescent of pumpkin pie. Share this:2Author: Kelly Kelly Sperber has been a professional writer for 5 years. She joined The Housing Forum Team in January, 2011. Kelly enjoys skydiving, attending fashion shows, and gardening in her spare time. View all posts by Kelly Kelly September 13, 2009Baking
1181800	how did world war i change after the united states became involved?	D1439120	"How did World War I change after the United States became involved? A. The war was a stalemate before the United States became involved. After the United States became involved, the balance tipped to the Allied powers. B. The war was fought with outdated weapons before the United States became involved. After the United States became involved, modern weapons were used. C. The war was fought in ""No Man's Land"" before the United States became involved. After the United States became involved, fighting moved to the trenches. D. The war was fought mostly in Russia before the United States became involved. After the United States became involved, fighting moved to France."	"High School History 5 points How did World War I change after the United States became involved? A. The war was a stalemate before the United States became involved. After the United States became involved, the balance tipped to the Allied powers. B. The war was fought with outdated weapons before the United States became involved. After the United States became involved, modern weapons were used. C. The war was fought in ""No Man's Land"" before the United States became involved. After the United States became involved, fighting moved to the trenches. D. The war was fought mostly in Russia before the United States became involved. After the United States became involved, fighting moved to France. Ask for details Follow Reportby Lightskin202 06/22/2017 "
1184928	zulma meaning	D3187610	Zulma	Zulma - A very unique female name Apr 05,2018 Abigail Adams, Editorial writer Zulma, meaning healthy and vigorous, appeared on the charts for the first time in 1947 on position #1879. In this article you'll learn the history of this name, statistics, see famous people named Zulma and more. Are you having a baby or looking to learn more about the name Zulma? Our experts and editorial staff have gathered trends and insights for 30,000+ baby names over the last 100 years -- And on this page you will learn everything you ever wanted to know about the name Zulma . The baby girl name Zulma was given to 12 baby girls in 2008, ranking #3852 on the national girl baby name top chart.x Must Try: Find A Perfect Name Based On Your Last Name... With that position 1 in 128,619 baby girls were given this name - making this a very unique female name according to our Popularity Score algorithm. Zulma peaked in popularity 47 years ago in 1971 on position 1293. Famous with this name Zulma Nu�ez Zulma Gonz�lez Zulma Arocha How would you rate Zulma, 1-5? Rating: 0 /5 ( people)Zulma is currently topping the charts in... Did you know that popularity can vary a lot between states? Zulma is currently topping the baby name charts in California at position #3,194 - and is the least popular in Texas at position #3,690. Why care about state specific baby name charts? It could be that a name that is very popular on the national overall charts is less (or even more) popular where you live. So make sure you check out the state specific charts below and find out how popular or unique Zulma is where you live. Comment and discuss Zulma origin and meaning Zulma is a 5 letter name with 2 syllables. This name means healthy and vigorous. To see famous people named Zulma, pop culture references for the name Zulma and nicknames & variations - visit Nameberry or Wikipedia . Similar to Zulma We've found the following names that sound similar to Zulma, sorted by popularity. Zelma / Zulema / Zuleyma / Zuleima / Zelina / Zaylin / Zalma / Zaelynn / Zailyn / Zailynn /Name statistics Most parents-to-be know if they want a popular or unique name, and with these charts and data tables you can easily get a better understanding of how popular or unique this name is. With a quick glance you can easily tell if this name is increasing or declining in popularity - But note that its current popularity can actually differ a lot from state to state. Chart position per year (visualized)Chart position per state (visualized)Chart position per year (table view)Year Rank2008 38522007 46902006 58802004 38272003 38742002 39262001 37532000 28851999 36791998 34791997 26651996 26911995 31361994 25721993 31341992 22351991 24861990 37121989 32201988 21421987 24171985 23171984 26901983 22491982 29811981 26471980 22631979 21001978 18571977 14611976 17611975 18331974 13281973 17661972 15341971 12931970 15321969 15151968 14321967 19291966 14261965 14741964 16391963 14891962 16831961 15501960 16981959 14881958 14931957 13961956 15601955 16251953 16981952 17331951 17861950 21181949 21281947 1879Chart position per state (table view)State Rank California 3194Texas 3690Even more about Zulma These are some of the common questions you may want to have answered to know if this is the perfect name for your baby. Is Zulma a common or unique name? By analyzing the number of births and frequency of this name we've determined that it's currently a very unique female name. What is the number of syllables for the name Zulma?2 syllables. Why is this important? One of the things that makes a baby name sound good and have a nice rythm is the number of syllables - and especially the number of syllables along with the syllable count for your last name. A simple rule is to avoid having the same number of syllables in your first, middle and last name. Recommended articles Do Not Make These 3 Baby Name Mistakes11 Strange Celebrity Baby Names Your Friends Will Digg These 10 Cool Names10 Awesome Superhero Baby Names# 3852On chart1971Peak year Female Share on Facebook Popularity Score™Zulma is currently...a very unique female name Name Zulma Gender Female Popularity 1 in 128,619Letter count 5Syllable count 2Year first discovered 19472008 births +12You May Also Like Baby names starting with Z2 syllable baby names Popular California baby names5 letter girl baby names About Us What's Baby Name Science.com? Our team of researchers have gathered trends and insights for 30,000+ baby names over the last 100 years. From Mary (#1 in 1910) to Madison (#8 in 2012) - We have collected and organized names from over 290 million births to help you find the perfect name for your baby.
124463	define nein	D1020026	Definitions &Translations	"Vocabulary What does nein mean? Definitions for nein Here are all the possible meanings and translations of the word nein. Freebase (0.00 / 0 votes)Rate this definition: Nein Nein is an Arab village in Israel that forms part of the Bustan al-Marj Regional Council in the Lower Galilee. Located 14 kilometers south of Nazareth, Nein covers a land area of approximately 1,000 dunums. Its total land area consisted of 3,737 dunums prior to 1962. According to the Israeli Central Bureau of Statistics, Nein had a population 1,600 in 2005. The city hall for the Bustan al-Marj Regional Council is located in Nein. Numerology Chaldean Numerology The numerical value of nein in Chaldean Numerology is: 7Pythagorean Numerology The numerical value of nein in Pythagorean Numerology is: 6Images & Illustrations of nein Translations for nein From our Multilingual Translation Dictionarynein Germannein Spanishnein Frenchnein Hindi NEIN Japanesenein Norwegian Get even more translations for nein »Translation Find a translation for the nein definition in other languages: Select another language: Discuss these nein definitions with the community: Word of the Day Would you like us to send you a FREE new word definition delivered to your inbox daily? Please enter your email address: Subscribe Citation Use the citation below to add this definition to your bibliography: Style: MLA Chicago APA""nein."" Definitions.net. STANDS4 LLC, 2018. Web. 25 Mar. 2018. < https://www.definitions.net/definition/nein >. Are we missing a good definition for nein? Don't keep it to yourself... Submit Definition "
133805	definition of debut	D2488272	debut	Ask the Editor Word of the Day Quizzes Core Vocabulary Most Popular My Saved Words Log in Learner's Dictionarydebut2 ENTRIES FOUND:debut (noun)debut (verb)Save1 debut / ˈdeɪˌbjuː/ nounplural debuts Learner's definition of DEBUT [ count]: the first time an actor, musician, athlete, etc., does something in public or for the publicmy debut as a pianist He made his singing debut at a very young age. She is making her television/film debut.— sometimes used to refer to the first appearance of a product, sport, event, etc.the debut of a new car The sport's Olympic debut took place in 1980.— often used before another nounher debut album/film/novel2 debut / ˈdeɪˌbjuː/ verbdebuts; debuted; debuting Learner's definition of DEBUT1 [ no object]: to appear in public for the first time: to make a debut The singer debuted 10 years ago, at the age of 15. The car debuted 30 years ago. The computer will soon be debuting in stores across the country.2 [ + object]: to show or provide (something, such as a product, television show, etc.) to the public for the first time The network debuts a new sitcom tonight. Comments & Questions What made you want to look up debut ? Include any comments and questions you have about this word. Sorry, the browser you are using is not currently supported. Disqus actively supports the following browsers: Firefox Chrome Internet Explorer 11+Safari
136056	definition of mancer	D2805027	Definitions &Translations	"Vocabulary What does -mancer mean? Definitions for -mancer Here are all the possible meanings and translations of the word -mancer. Wiktionary (2.00 / 2 votes)Rate this definition:-mancer (Suffix)A practitioner of a specific type of divination. Numerology Chaldean Numerology The numerical value of -mancer in Chaldean Numerology is: 2Pythagorean Numerology The numerical value of -mancer in Pythagorean Numerology is: 9Translations for -mancer From our Multilingual Translation Dictionary-mancer Greek-mancer Spanish-mancer French-מרכז Hebrew-mancer Dutch-mancer Chinese Get even more translations for -mancer »Translation Find a translation for the -mancer definition in other languages: Select another language: Discuss these -mancer definitions with the community: Word of the Day Would you like us to send you a FREE new word definition delivered to your inbox daily? Please enter your email address: Subscribe Citation Use the citation below to add this definition to your bibliography: Style: MLA Chicago APA""-mancer."" Definitions.net. STANDS4 LLC, 2018. Web. 11 Apr. 2018. < https://www.definitions.net/definition/-mancer >. Are we missing a good definition for -mancer? Don't keep it to yourself... Submit Definition "
144822	did president john adams or john quincy adams own slaves	D1781995	25 Facts About John Adams	"25 Facts About John Adams BY Arthur Holland Michel May 30, 2014Lawyer, statesman, president, gadfly, New Englander: John Adams was a lot of things, but boring wasn't one of them. Here are some interesting facts about Mr. Adams.1. None of Adams’ family members were present for his inauguration. According to David Mc Cullough’s Pulitzer-winning biography, the 2nd President of the United States had a relatively lonely inauguration. More from mental floss studios An unanticipated problem was encountered, check back soon and try again Error Code: MEDIA_ERR_UNKNOWNSession ID: 2018-04-10:59fe5860e200b4221fc3f047 Player Element ID: my Player IDOK2. He was not a slaveholder. Of the first five American presidents, Adams was the only non-slaveholder. His predecessor, George Washington, owned over 300 slaves at the time of his death.3. But he was against abolition. In 1801, two abolitionists sent a pamphlet by Warner Mifflin to John Adams. He responded that, while he was opposed to slavery and had never owned a slave in his life, he did not support the abolitionist movement—he thought it was dangerous and potentially destabilizing. From the Lehrman Institute: Adams, despite being opposed to slavery, did not support abolitionism except if it was done in a 'gradual' way with 'much caution and Circumspection.' Adams dismisses radical abolitionist measures as 'produc [ing] greater violations of Justice and Humanity, than the continuance of the practice' of slavery itself. Adams also wrongly asserts that 'the practice of Slavery is fast diminishing.' Rather than declining, slavery was growing in America. The 1790 census counted almost 700,000 slaves. According to the census of 1800, the year before Adams wrote this letter, that number had grown to almost 900,000. In closing, Adams writes that he does 'wish you Success in your benevolent Endeavors to relieve the distress of our fellow Creatures, and Shall always be ready to cooperate with you, as far as my means and Opportunities can reasonably be expected to extend.'4. He was the only non-Virginian of the first five presidents. He was from Braintree, Massachusetts, which is now named Quincy, after his son.5. Adams died on the same day as Thomas Jefferson. The two staunch rivals kicked the bucket on July 4, 1826, exactly fifty years after the signing of the Declaration of Independence.6. Adams did not attend Jefferson’s inauguration. He skipped it even though Jefferson had been Adams’ Vice President. Told you they were rivals.7. Adams’ last words were “Thomas Jefferson survives.”And they were erroneous. From the White House: On July 4, 1826, he whispered his last words: ""Thomas Jefferson survives."" But Jefferson had died at Monticello a few hours earlier.8. His son John Quincy became the sixth president. The only other father-son presidential duo is George H. W. Bush and George W. Bush.9. He defended two British soldiers who were accused of being responsible for the Boston Massacre In 1770, as tensions in the colonies were at a fever point, Adams defended the pair at trial and they were found not guilty. Looking back, Adams called his defense of British soldiers in 1770 ""one of the most gallant, generous, manly, and disinterested actions of my whole life, and one of the best pieces of service I ever rendered my country."" From the University of Missouri-Kansas City: The day after British soldiers mortally wounded five Americans on a cobbled square in Boston, thirty-four-year-old Adams was visited in his office near the stairs of the Town Office by a Boston merchant, James Forest. ""With tears streaming from his eyes"" (according to the recollection of Adams), Forest asked Adams to defend the soldiers and their captain, Thomas Preston. Adams understood that taking the case would not only subject him to criticism, but might jeopardize his legal practice or even risk the safety of himself and his family. But Adams believed deeply that every person deserved a defense, and he took on the case without hesitation. For his efforts, he would receive the modest sum of eighteen guineas. The Preston case came to trial in the Queen Street courthouse in October. Adams, and his young assistant, Josiah Quincy, defended Preston against a prosecution team comprised of Josiah's brother Samuel and Robert Paine. Adams succeeded in casting grave doubt as to whether Preston ever gave orders to shoot, and the Boston jury acquitted the captain.10. He lived to be exceptionally old. Gilbert Stuart He was 90 years old when he died. No president lived longer than Adams until Reagan and then Ford, who were both 93 when they passed.11. He spent a night sleeping in the same bed as Benjamin Franklin. Matt Soniak actually wrote a whole article about this amazing incident: Ever been on a road trip where the sleeping conditions were less than ideal? Such indignities aren’t just for average citizens like you and me. Even founding fathers and future presidents had to bunk with one another on occasion. In September 1776, just a few months after the thirteen American colonies announced their independence from Britain, Benjamin Franklin and John Adams got stuck shacking up together for a night. As part of a delegation sent by the Continental Congress, they were on their way from Philadelphia to Staten Island to negotiate with Admiral Richard Howe of the Royal Navy for a possible end to the Revolutionary War. As they passed through New Brunswick, New Jersey, the negotiators - Franklin, Adams and South Carolina politician Edward Rutledge - decided to stop for the night and find a place to sleep. The local taverns and inns were nearly full, though, and there were only two rooms for the three men. “One bed could be procured for Dr. Franklin and me,” Adams wrote in his autobiography, “in a chamber a little larger than the bed, without a chimney and with only one small window.”That window would be a problem for the two men. Read more about these strange bedfellows here.12. The British wanted him hanged. Declaration of Independence, John Trumbull According to David Mc Cullough's John Adams, after the Declaration of Independence was signed, the British drafted a list of pardonable Americans should the document be retracted. John Adams wasn't on that list, so if the Revolutionary War had been won by the British, he would have been hanged.13. Adams was the first person to propose the idea of a U. S. military academy in 1776. Even though it wasn’t until after the war that West Point was created, Adams can be thought of as the Father of the U. S. Military Academy.14. His personal diary was read aloud and laughed at in Congress. While in Paris, Adams wrote effusively about the hospitality of the French aristocracy. He was dazzled by their compliments (one French gentleman called him “The Washington of negotiation”). According to Mc Cullough, he sent these embarrassing bits of his diary back to Philadelphia as part of a report on his progress, “perhaps by his own error.” Some in Congress found his vanity hilarious.15. He was the first president to live in the White House. Adams and his wife Abigail moved into the White House in 1800, before it was even completed, and lived there for four months before his term ended.16. Before becoming President, he observed the Sabbath Wikimedia Commons During the Revolutionary War, Adams refused to travel or work during the Sabbath. He eventually dropped this practice in Paris.17. He was a hopeless romantic.“I am with all the ardour of youth yours,” he wrote to Abigail in 1793 (he was 58). Since Adams and Abigail were so often living separately (he in Philadelphia and she in Massachusetts—a true 18th century long distance relationship), there are scores of love letters between them that remain in existence.“I am warm enough at night, but cannot sleep since I left you.” (1793)“I can do nothing without you.” (1776)They called each other “dearest friend” in their letters, or, when he wasn’t in a hurry, “best, dearest, worthiest, wisest friend in the world.”18. He tried to save the home of one of his harshest critics. According to Mc Cullough, in 1797, a fire engulfed the shop and home of the publisher Andrew Brown, who had been an ardent critic of Adams as Vice President. Adams, who was already the President-elect of the United States, was seen carrying buckets of water to try help put out the flames.19. He complained about cleaning up after wild parties. Thinkstock (sunglasses & party blower)When he moved into the President’s House following Washington’s departure, Adams found the space in great disarray, largely because Washington’s servants had been having parties there. He wrote to Abigail that there was “not a chair to sit in. The beds and bedding are in a woeful pickle. The house has been the scene of the most scandalous drinking and disorder among the servants that I ever heard of.”20. As President, He Refused Protection Outside His House For Over a Year John Trumbull He eventually agreed to have a guard outside his house in response to a spate of violence between gang members in Philadelphia.21. He is one of only 10 presidents to serve a single term. He lost his re-election bid to Jefferson in 1800.22. He created America’s oldest band. Wikimedia Commons In 1798, Adams signed an act of Congress for the creation of the United States Marine Band, “the oldest continuously active professional musical organization in our country.”23. The final official dinner that Adams gave as President was for a delegation of Native Americans. This was on February 16, 1801.24. He signed some of the nastiest bits of American Legislation ever. According to the Library of Congress, the Alien and Sedition Act of 1798 “increased the residency requirement for American citizenship from five to fourteen years, authorized the president to imprison or deport aliens considered 'dangerous to the peace and safety of the United States' and restricted speech critical of the government. These laws were designed to silence and weaken the Democratic-Republican Party. Negative reaction to the Alien and Sedition Acts helped contribute to the Democratic-Republican victory in the 1800 elections.”Adams never deported anybody under the law, even though his critics feared that he would. That being said, under the act, numerous people were charged for expressing views that were critical of the president and the government. These included James Callender, who wrote a number of essays criticizing Adams (these became his book The Prospect Before Us ). He called Adams a “repulsive pedant” and gross hypocrite. The Sedition Act and the Alien Friends Act expired in 1800 and 1801.25. He was a bad dancer. This is according to David Mc Cullough's biography. Perhaps Adams didn’t want his son John Quincy to have this trait, as John Quincy studied dance while he was living with his parents in Paris. All images courtesy of Getty Images unless otherwise stated. History presidents FACEBOOK 0 TWITTER EMAIL "
15235	alco pittsburgh parking number	D2668321	Alco Parking	Alco Parking0 Reviews650 Penn St Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15227 (412) 255-6111 Website Print | Save | Directions About Alco Parking is located at the address 650 Penn St in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15227. They can be contacted via phone at (412) 255-6111 for pricing, hours and directions. Alco Parking specializes in Exterior Work, Motorhomes, Municipalities. Alco Parking has an annual sales volume of 501K - 999,999. . For more information go to www.duckwall.com|www.twitter.com/alcostores Alco Parking provides Excavating, Replacements, Consultations to it's customers. For maps and directions to Alco Parking view the map to the right. For reviews of Alco Parking see below. Business Features PRODUCTSHinges , Railings , Operators , Locks , Accessories , Belts , Rollers , Wrought Iron , Retaining Walls , Windows SERVICESExcavating , Installations & Replacements , Replacements , Grading , Parking Utilization Analysis , Business Client Services , Industrial Services , Crack Sealing , Consultations , New Construction SPECIALTIESDriveways , Site Development , Streets , Motorhomes , Personal Watercraft , Municipalities , Fifth Wheels , Exterior Work , Industrial , Roads Information CONTACT INFORMATIONPhone: (412) 255-6111Website: www.duckwall.com|www.twitter.com/alcostores ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: Employee Size: 1 To 4Exact Employee Count: 3Exact Sales Volume: 100000Location Type: Single Location Sales Volume: 501K - 999,999CATEGORIES: Parking Lots & Garages Professional Services People Also Viewed L C PARKING INCLocust st & Marion St Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15203Network Parking Co Ltd301 W Station Square Dr Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219Reft Leasing Co3422 Forbes Ave Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213Reviews Add Click here to be the first to review this business...0 Reviews
154595	dna replication explained	D294898	3.4.1 Explain DNA Replication	3.4.1 Explain DNA Replication Stephanie Castle Subscribe 11KAdd to Share More96,850 views47710Published on Feb 26, 20123.4.1 Explain DNA Replication DNA Replication is the process by which two identical pieces of DNA are produced from one original piece of DNA. This process ensures that new cells that are made contain exactly the same information as the original cell. Firstly you need to recall the structure of DNA in order to understand the process of replication. Recall that the molecule is double stranded and that those strand are antiparallel to each other. You can see this on the video by the labeled prime ends. Please refer to the video regarding the structure of DNA (3.3.3/3.3.4/3.3.5) in order to familiarize yourself with its structure if you need to refresh! The two strands undergo replication in a slightly different fashion so in the video I show you first the leading strand only followed by then the lagging strand only, before finally demonstrating how the enzymes move relative to each other to build both these strands. In reality both the leading and lagging are replicated at the same time, just in different ways as we shall see now. The leading strand is the strand that is going from 3' to 5' (on the left hand side in the video). Firstly the DNA Helicase unwinds the double helix and separates the two strands by breaking the hydrogen bonds between the complimentary base pairs. Then DNA Polymerase adds complimentary DNA nucleotides to the original strand working in the 5'-3' direction, the same direction as the DNA Helicase (as it continues to unwind and separate the DNA). Therefore the leading strand is replicated continuously. Note that DNA Polymerase can only add nucleotides to the 3' end of the previously added nucleotide. In contrast to the leading strand, the lagging strand is that which goes from 5' to 3' (on the right hand side in the video). It progresses through the process of DNA replication at the same time as the leading strand. Therefore DNA Helicase is still the enzyme that unwinds the DNA and separates it by breaking the hydrogen bonds between the complimentary base pairs. DNA Polymerase also, as per the leading strand, adds complimentary DNA nucleotides. However, here is where there is a difference. As previously mentioned, DNA Polymerase can only add nucleotides to the 3' end of the previously added nucleotide. Since the lagging strand is antiparallel to the leading strand, this means that the enzyme DNA Polymerase is moving in the opposite direction to the DNA Helicase. This lead to the creation of the newly synthesized strand in fragments known as Okazaki fragments. DNA replication is completed here by joining the Okazaki fragments using the enzyme DNA ligase. In the video I show you relatively the movement of the enzymes for both the leading and lagging strands together. Note that the nucleotides are present in the image, but that they are in fact added by DNA Polymerase as it moves along the strands. The animation is trying to point out that DNA replication for both the leading and lagging strands takes place at the same time, but on the lagging strand it takes place discontinuously because the DNA Polymerase can only add DNA nucleotides in the opposite direction to the movement of the DNA Helicase (resulting from the antiparallel nature of the strands). Finally, DNA replication produces two identical 'daughter' pieces of DNA from one original piece of DNA. Each new 'daughter' piece of DNA rewinds to form a double helix Show more Loading...
160520	do you have to use baking powder in muffins?	D1504974	What is baking powder, and how does it work?	NEXTThe reason why people often prefer baking powder to yeast is because yeast takes so long -- usually two to three hours -- to produce its bubbles. See more baked goods in these pictures of cakes and cupcakes . Peter Galbraith/ Getty Images If you have read How Bread Works, then you understand how the release of carbon dioxide by yeast can cause bread to rise. Many recipes, however, use no yeast. Things like muffins, biscuits, cakes and cookies usually use baking powder instead. Baking powder is normally made of three different parts: Keep Reading Below An acid A base A filler of some sort All three need to be dry powders that can be mixed together. For example, baking soda (a base), cream of tartar (an acid) and corn starch (the filler) are three common ingredients. In school, you may have done the experiment where you mix baking soda (a base) and vinegar (an acid) and get a bubbling reaction. Baking powder works the same way. When you add water to baking powder, the dry acid and base go into solution and start reacting to produce carbon dioxide bubbles. Single-acting baking powder produces all of its bubbles when it gets wet. Double-acting baking powder produces bubbles again when it gets hot. If you want to prove to yourself that this is how baking powder works, simply try mixing a teaspoon of baking powder into a cup of hot water. As long as the baking powder is fresh, you will definitely see the reaction!Baking soda, also known as sodium bicarbonate, has the chemical formula Na HCO 3. Cream of tartar, also known as tartrate salt, has the formula KHC 4 H 4 O 6. The reaction is: Na HCO3 + KHC4H4O6 ----> KNa C4H4O6 + H2O + CO2Na HCO 3 + KHC 4 H 4 O 6 ----> KNa C 4 H 4 O 6 + H 2 O + CO 2Some baking powders contain sodium aluminum sulfate: Na Al (SO 4) 2. The reaction there is: Na Al (SO4)2 + 3 Na HCO3 ----> Al (OH)3 + 2 Na2SO4 + 3 CO2Na Al (SO 4) 2 + 3 Na HCO 3 ----> Al (OH) 3 + 2 Na 2 SO 4 + 3 CO 2Many recipes call simply for baking soda rather than baking powder. Usually these recipes use some kind of liquid acid like buttermilk or yogurt to react with the baking soda to produce the bubbles. The reason why people often prefer baking powder to yeast is because yeast takes so long -- usually two to three hours -- to produce its bubbles. Baking powder is instant, so you can mix up a batch of biscuits and eat them 15 minutes later. Now that you understand how baking powder works, you can understand two things you often see in recipes: Many recipes instruct you to mix all of the dry ingredients together and then add the liquid. That keeps the baking powder from reacting until the end of the mixing process. Many recipes tell you to mix only briefly -- just until the ingredients are moistened. That minimizes the escape of the gas from the batter. If you were to stir for a long time, the reaction would end and the stirring would have allowed the bubbles to escape. For more baking tips and techniques, see the links on the next page. Brain Stuff How Baking Powder Works Baking powder is made of three components -- an acid, a base, and a filler. Check out this How Stuff Works podcast to learn more about baking powder.00:04:32Share Subscribe
164144	does caffeine have a flavor	D1213152	Does Caffeine Affect the Taste of Coffee and Cola?	Science, Tech, Math ›Science Does Caffeine Affect the Taste of Coffee and Cola? Caffeine as a Flavoring Share Flipboard Email Print While you normally think of caffeine as a stimulant, it also contributes a pleasant bitter flavor to coffee and cola. Jesus Ayala, Getty Images Cola or Sodaby Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph. D. Updated March 08, 2017Caffeine occurs naturally in coffee and is added to cola. Have you ever wondered whether caffeine has a flavor of its own or whether decaffeinated drinks taste different from their caffeinated counterparts because of this ingredient? If so, here's what you need to know. The Flavor of Caffeine Yes, caffeine has a flavor. On its own, it tastes bitter, alkaline, and slightly soapy. In coffee, cola and other beverages it contributes this flavor, plus it also reacts with other ingredients to produce new flavors. Removing caffeine from coffee or cola changes the flavor of the drink because the resulting products are missing the bitterness of caffeine, the flavors resulting from interactions between the caffeine and other ingredients in the product, and also because the process of removing caffeine may impart or remove flavors. Also, sometimes the recipe for decaffeinated products differs by more than just the absence of caffeine. How Is Caffeine Removed? Caffeine is often added to cola, but it also naturally occurs in the leaf extracts used as flavorings. If caffeine is omitted as an ingredient, others need to be added to approximate the original flavor. Removing caffeine from coffee is more complicated because the alkaloid is part of the coffee bean. The two main processes used to decaffeinate coffee are the Swiss water bath (SWB) and ethyl acetate wash (EA). For the SWB process, coffee is decaffeinated using osmosis in a water bath. Soaking the beans can remove flavor and aroma as well as caffeine, so the coffee is often soaked in water enriched with caffeine-free green coffee extract. The end product is a decaffeinated coffee with a (milder) flavor of the original beans, plus the flavor of the coffee extract. In the EA process, caffeine is extracted from the beans using the volatile organic chemical ethyl acetate. The chemical evaporates, plus any residue is burned off during the roasting process. However, EA processing does affect the flavor of the beans, often adding a fruity flavor, like wine or bananas. Whether this is desirable or not is a matter of taste. Does Decaf Taste Better or Worse Than Regular Coffee? Whether decaffeinated coffee tastes better or worse than the regular cup of joe is a matter of personal preference. Decaffeinated coffee doesn't usually taste a lot different, just lighter. If you like the flavor of a dark, bold roast, decaffeinated coffee probably won't taste as good to you. On the other hand, if you like a light roast, you may prefer the flavor of decaf. Keep in mind, there are already huge flavor differences between coffee products because of the origin of the beans, the roasting process, and how they are ground. If you don't like the flavor of one decaffeinated product, that doesn't mean you'll necessarily hate all of them. There are even coffee varieties that naturally contain less caffeine, so they don't need to undergo additional processing.cite
165704	does drinking hot water get rid of gas	D2756562	How to get rid of gas pains	Home remedy for gas pains7:09 AM Admin No comments Gas pains can occur during the most inconvenience time. That's why we need to have home remedy for gas pains ready at all time. Having the remedy ready at home can aid us get rid of gas pains without the need to leave our home. This is important especially if the gas pains happen to occur in the middle of the night. So how to get rid of gas pains at home? Caraway Seeds If the gas pains occur, one of many ways of getting rid of it is by eating some caraway seeds. The caraway seed can help your stomach to relax and reduce the pains. Peppermint Tea Peppermint tea is good for relieving the gas in your stomach. Drinking peppermint tea can help reduce gas pains. Ginger Juice Ginger juice can also help to reduce gas pains. Ginger juice had been use as a gas relieving medicine... Read more »How to get rid of gas pains1:35 AM Admin No comments In this article we are going to talk about how to get rid of gas pains. Gas pains usually happen when we are swallowing too much air during we eat or drink using a straws. It can also occur if we drink a carbonate drinks with an empty stomach. But not matter what's the cause, gas pains can make us feel uncomfortable. Luckily, there are ways to get rid of it. Here are some tips on how to get rid of gas pains: By drinking a hot water you can get rid of gas pains simply by boiling a glass of drinking water to acceptable temperature and drink it. Drinking hot water can also make your stomach feel a little more comfortable. The important thing is to make sure the water temperature are acceptable for you since you wouldn't want to hurt your... Read more »
175158	doses of tramadol	D327698	Tramadol Dosage	Tramadol Dosage Overview Side Effects Dosage Professional Tips Interactions Pregnancy Warnings More Breastfeeding Warnings User Reviews Drug Images Support Group Q & ACompare Alternatives Pricing & Coupons Applies to the following strengths: 50 mg; 100 mg/24 hours; 200 mg/24 hours; 300 mg/24 hours; 150 mg/24 hours The information at Drugs.com is not a substitute for medical advice. Always consult your doctor or pharmacist. Usual Adult Dose for: Pain Chronic Pain Usual Geriatric Dose for: Pain Chronic Pain Usual Pediatric Dose for: Pain Additional dosage information: Renal Dose Adjustments Liver Dose Adjustments Dose Adjustments Precautions Dialysis Other Comments Usual Adult Dose for Pain Adults (17 years or older): 50 to 100 mg orally every 4 to 6 hours as needed for pain -For patients not requiring rapid onset of analgesic effect: Initial dose: 25 mg orally once a day; titrate in 25 mg increments every 3 days to reach a dose of 25 mg four times a day; thereafter increase by 50 mg as tolerated every 3 days Maximum dose: 400 mg per day Comments: -Doses should be individualized; for patients not requiring rapid analgesia, tolerability may be increased by a slow dose titration. -The US FDA warns against use of tramadol in pediatric patients; product labeling for immediate-release tramadol describes adult patients as 17 years or older. -Tramadol should not be used postoperatively in patients up to 18 years after tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy or in adolescents up to 18 years who are obese or have conditions that may increase the risk of breathing problems. Use: For the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Usual Adult Dose for Chronic Pain Extended-Release (ER): 18 years or older (tramadol-naive): 100 mg orally once a day -Individually titrate in 100 mg increments every 5 days to an effective dose that minimizes adverse reactions -Maximum Dose: 300 mg/day For patients CURRENTLY receiving Immediate-Release (IR) Tramadol: Initial Dose: Calculate 24-hour IR requirement and initiate with a total daily ER dose rounded down to the next lowest 100 mg increment orally once a day Conversion from OTHER Opioids: Discontinue all other around the clock opioid drugs prior to initiating therapy -Initial dose: 100 mg ER orally once a day -Individually titrate in 100 mg increments every 5 days to an effective dose that minimizes adverse reactions -Maximum Dose: 300 mg/day Comments: -Due to limitations of dose selection with ER formulations, some patients may not be able to convert from the IR to ER. -The ER products should not be used with other tramadol products and should not be taken more often than once a day. -Monitor patients closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24 to 72 hours of therapy and following dose increases. -For patients with moderate to moderately severe chronic pain not requiring rapid onset of analgesic effect, tolerability can be improved by initiating slowly, possibly with the immediate-release product. -This drug is not recommended for patients less than 18 years old. Use: For the management of pain severe enough to require around-the-clock long-term opioid treatment for which alternative treatment options are inadequate. Usual Geriatric Dose for Pain Dose selection should be cautious generally starting at the low end of the dose range Over 75 years: Maximum dose of Immediate-release: 300 mg per day Comments: -Respiratory depression is the chief risk for elderly patients treated with opioids; titrate dose slowly and monitor closely for signs of central nervous system and respiratory depression. -Because this drug is substantially excreted by the kidney, consider monitoring renal function. Usual Geriatric Dose for Chronic Pain Dose selection should be cautious generally starting at the low end of the dose range Over 75 years: Maximum dose of Immediate-release: 300 mg per day Comments: -Respiratory depression is the chief risk for elderly patients treated with opioids; titrate dose slowly and monitor closely for signs of central nervous system and respiratory depression. -Because this drug is substantially excreted by the kidney, consider monitoring renal function. Usual Pediatric Dose for Pain Tramadol is not recommended for use in pediatric patients 17 years or older: See Adult Dose Renal Dose Adjustments Immediate-release: -Cr Cl less than 30 m L/min: Increase dosing interval to every 12 hours; Maximum dose should not exceed 200 mg per day Extended-release: -Cr Cl less than 30 m L/min: Use is not recommended Liver Dose Adjustments Immediate-release: -Patients with cirrhosis: 50 mg orally every 12 hours Extended-release: -Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C): Use is not recommended Dose Adjustments Concomitant use of Drugs affecting CYP450 Isoenzymes: -CYP450 3A4 inhibitors/inducers and CYP450 2D6 inhibitors: Interactions are complex, consult drug interaction monographs For patients who have received this drug for an extended-period: -Gradually decrease dose by 25% to 50% every 2 to 4 days -If patient develops signs or symptoms of withdrawal, raise the dose to the previous level and taper more slowly by either increasing the interval between decreases, decreasing the amount of change in dose, or both. -Do not abruptly discontinue therapy, especially for patients receiving extended-release product. Precautions US BOXED WARNINGS: ADDICTION, ABUSE AND MISUSE; LIFE-THREATENING RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION; ACCIDENTAL INGESTION; ULTRA-RAPID METABOLISM OF TRAMADOL AND OTHER RISK FACTORS FOR LIFE-THREATENING RESPIRATORY DEPRESSION IN CHILDREN; NEONATAL OPIOID WITHDRAWAL SYNDROME; INTERACTIONS WITH DRUGS AFFECTING CYP450 ISOENZYMES; and RISKS FROM CONCOMITANT USE WITH BENZODIAZEPINES OR OTHER CNS DEPRESSANTS: -Addiction, Abuse, and Misuse: Use of this drug exposes patients and other users to the risks of opioid addiction and misuse, which can lead to overdose and death. Assess each patient's risk prior to prescribing and monitor all patients regularly for the development of these behaviors or conditions. -Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression: Serious life-threatening or fatal respiratory depression may occur. Monitor for respiratory depression, especially during initiation or following a dose increase. -Accidental Ingestion of/exposure to even one dose, especially by children, can result in a fatal overdose. -Ultra-Rapid Metabolism of Tramadol and Other Risk Factors for Life-Threatening Respiratory Depression in Children: Life-threatening respiratory depression and death have occurred in children who received tramadol. Some of the reported cases occurred following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy, and in at least 1 case, the child had evidence of being an ultra-rapid metabolizer of tramadol due to a CYP450 2D6 polymorphism. This drug is contraindicated in children younger than 12 years of age and in children younger than 18 years of age following tonsillectomy and/or adenoidectomy. Avoid use in adolescents 12 to 18 years of age who have other risk factors that may increase their sensitivity to the respiratory depressant effects of tramadol. -Neonatal Opioid Withdrawal Syndrome may result from prolonged maternal opioid use during pregnancy; it may be life-threatening if not recognized and treated; management according to protocols developed by neonatology experts will be required. If opioid use is needed for a prolonged period in a pregnant woman, she should be advised of the risk of neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and ensure appropriate treatment be available. -Concomitant use or discontinuation of CYP450 isoenzymes including CYP450 3A4 inducers, CYP450 3A4 inhibitors, or CYP450 2D6 inhibitors are complex; concomitant use requires careful consideration of the effects on the parent drug, tramadol, and the active metabolite, M1. -Risks from Concomitant Use with Benzodiazepines or Other CNS Depressants, including alcohol, may result in profound sedation, respiratory depression, coma, and death. Reserve concomitant prescribing for patients for whom alternative treatment options are inadequate; limit dosages and durations to the minimum required; and follow patients for signs and symptoms of respiratory depression and sedation. Safety and efficacy have not been established in patients younger than 18 years. Consult WARNINGS section for additional precautions. US Controlled Substance: Schedule IVDialysis Hemodialysis patients can receive their regular dose on dialysis days since only 7% of dose is removed Peritoneal dialysis: No data available Other Comments OTHER COMMENTS: Administration advice: -Take orally with or without food Extended release capsules and tablets: -Swallow whole; do not crush, chew, split, or dissolve -May take with or without food, but should be taken in a consistent manner once a day General: -During periods of changing analgesic requirements, including initial dose titration, frequent communication among members of the healthcare team, patients, and caregivers, is important; patients who experience breakthrough pain may require dose adjustments or if receiving the extended-release (ER) product, may need rescue medication with an immediate-release analgesic. -Seizures and/serotonin syndrome may occur when used concomitantly with serotonergic agents (SSRIs, SNRIs, and triptans) or with drugs that significantly reduce the metabolic clearance of tramadol. -Taking this drug in excessive doses, either alone or in combination with other CNS depressants, including alcohol, is a major cause of drug-related deaths. -Extended-release products should be prescribed by healthcare professionals knowledgeable in the use of potent opioids for the management of chronic pain; this drug should not be used for longer than therapeutically necessary; evaluate continued use at regular intervals. Monitoring: -Monitor closely for respiratory depression, especially within the first 24 to 72 hours of initiating therapy and with each dose increase. -Monitor regularly for the development of addiction, abuse, and misuse. -Consider monitoring renal function in elderly patients. Patient advice: -Patients should understand that taking this medication exposes them to the risk of addiction. -Patients should understand the risks of life-threatening respiratory depression, and be informed as to when this risk is greatest. -This drug may cause drowsiness, dizziness, or impair thinking or motor skills; patients should avoid driving or operating machinery until adverse effects are determined. -Patients should be instructed to avoid alcohol, not to exceed the recommended dose, and to speak with their healthcare provider regarding all concomitant medications including starting or stopping any products while taking this drug. -Patients should be instructed to report bowel problems and signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency. -Advise patient to speak to physician or health care professional if pregnant, intend to become pregnant, or are breastfeeding. -Women of child bearing potential should understand that prolonged use during pregnancy can result in neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome and that prompt recognition and treatment will be necessary. Next → Professional Add to My Med List More about tramadol Side Effects During Pregnancy or Breastfeeding Dosage Information Drug Images Drug Interactions Compare Alternatives Support Group Pricing & Coupons En Español1251 Reviews – Add your own review/rating Drug class: narcotic analgesics Consumer resources Tramadol Tramadol Extended-Release Tablets Tramadol Suspension Tramadol Tablets Tramadol Extended-Release Capsules Tramadol (Advanced Reading)Other brands: Ultram, Con Zip, Ultram ER, Rybix ODT, Ryzolt Professional resources Tramadol Hydrochloride (AHFS Monograph)... +4 more Related treatment guides Back Pain Chronic Pain Anxiety Depression... +6 more
179134	eggnog how long does it keep alcoholic opened	D273115	Does Eggnog Go Bad?	Eggnog is a rich, delicious drink that is usually only available during the winter holidays. This sweet, dessert-like beverage contains dairy products, including cream, milk and raw eggs, which means that it will only last as long as the shelf life of these ingredients. Depending on how the eggnog is packaged and whether or not it contains alcohol, it may last from a few days to several months. Deck the Halls With Cups of Eggnog Most eggnog that's kept in your grocery store's refrigerated section will last for around one week if kept at 40 degrees Fahrenheit or below. Once opened, it will last for about five days. For eggnog with a longer shelf life, purchase canned eggnog, which doesn't require refrigeration and lasts for up to five months, unopened, in a cool pantry. When you open your canned eggnog, refrigerate it, and it will last for about five days. Unopened, shelf-stable bottled eggnog that contains alcohol can last up to 18 months without refrigeration. Once opened, the alcoholic beverage may last several weeks in the fridge. Homemade eggnog usually lasts for around three days if refrigerated; if at least 5 percent alcohol is added, it may last a few weeks. Keeping It Cool Eggnog requires consistent refrigeration, so if you leave it out in temperatures of 40 to 90 F for more than two hours, you'll need to discard it. In ambient temperatures above 90 F, discard your eggnog after it sits out for more than one hour. Although the eggnog may not appear to be spoiled, it's best to toss it because harmful bacteria could develop in it when it's not properly refrigerated. While freezing your eggnog at 0 F will extend its shelf life for up to three months, it will negatively affect its texture, separating its ingredients when thawed and making it slightly clumpy. When Good Eggnog Goes Bad Even when your eggnog is properly refrigerated, it will still spoil eventually. If your eggnog is no longer good, you may be able to tell from its texture and smell. When the drink goes bad, it will become lumpy and develop a sour, unpleasant aroma due to the presence of lactic acid spoilage bacteria in it. You may also notice visible mold growing on your eggnog. Eggnog is beige to yellowish in color due to the milk, cream, eggs and spices it contains. If your eggnog becomes discolored, it's likely spoiled and you should discard it. Pasteurizing Eggnog Most commercially available eggnog is pasteurized for safety. When making eggnog yourself, always pasteurize your raw eggs by mixing them with half of the milk and cream your recipe calls for and heating the mixture to 160 F. Cool the pasteurized egg mixture and combine it with the rest of your ingredients. This process will kill off any dangerous Salmonella bacteria present in the raw eggs. Adding alcohol to your eggnog may prevent the growth of new harmful bacteria, but it may not kill off existing Salmonella bacteria in the raw eggs. This is why pasteurizing your egg base is necessary, even if you plan to add some spirits to your eggnog.
18224	angiopathy definition	D357663	Angiopathy	"From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedianavigation search Angiopathy is the generic term for a disease of the blood vessels ( arteries, veins, and capillaries ). [1] The best known and most prevalent angiopathy is diabetic angiopathy, a common complication of chronic diabetes. Contents [ hide ]1 Classification1.1 By caliber1.2 By condition2 References3 External links Classification [ edit]By caliber [ edit]There are two types of angiopathy: macroangiopathy and microangiopathy. In macroangiopathy, atherosclerosis and a resultant blood clot forms on the large blood vessels, sticks to the vessel walls, and blocks the flow of blood. Macroangiopathy may cause other complications, such as ischemic heart disease, stroke and peripheral vascular disease which contributes to the diabetic foot ulcers and the risk of amputation. In microangiopathy, the walls of the smaller blood vessels become so thick and weak that they bleed, leak protein, and slow the flow of blood through the body. The decrease of blood flow through stenosis or clot formation impairs the flow of oxygen to cells and biological tissues (called ischemia) and leads to cellular death ( necrosis and gangrene, which in turn may require amputation ). Thus, tissues which are very sensitive to oxygen levels, such as the retina, develop microangiopathy and may cause blindness (so-called proliferative diabetic retinopathy ). Damage to nerve cells may cause peripheral neuropathy, and to kidney cells, diabetic nephropathy ( Kimmelstiel-Wilson syndrome ). By condition [ edit]It is also possible to classify angiopathy by the associated condition: Diabetic angiopathy Congophilic angiopathy References [ edit]^ "" angiopathy "" at Dorland's Medical Dictionary External links [ edit]Skin care guide [ show]v t e Cardiovascular disease (vessels) ( I70–I99, 440–456)Categories: Vascular diseases "
195864	good vitamins for liver	D1475412	Best Vitamins for Your Liver	"Best Vitamins for Your Liverby STACEY PHILLIPS Oct. 03, 2017The liver is the largest internal organ -- and one of the most complex. It produces bile, which helps the body digest fat, and also manages the release of energy, distributes and stores vitamins and minerals, breaks down medications, assists the body in removing toxins, controls and removes cholesterol and aids in blood clotting -- among other functions. A nutritious and well-rounded diet is the best way to get all of the vitamins needed to maintain a healthy liver. However, certain vitamins have properties that may be of particular value in liver health. Vitamin EVitamin E, a powerful antioxidant, has been widely studied for its potential role in preventing disease and maintaining liver health, according to a November 2015 article in the ""International Journal of Molecular Sciences."" And oxidative stress, including stress from alcohol, drugs and other factors, causes nearly all chronic liver conditions, reports a June 2015 article in ""Evidence-Based Complementary and Alternative Medicine."" Antioxidants from foods can neutralize the harmful free radicals caused by this oxidative stress. Vitamin E in particular has been widely studied for its therapeutic effects on alcoholic hepatitis and chronic hepatitis C, as outlined in a July 2011 article in ""Liver International. ""Vitamin E may be the most promising vitamin to aid in liver health, but more research is needed. Vitamin E supplements should only be used if your doctor deems the benefits outweigh any risks, since an analysis of 19 clinical trials published in the January 2005 issue of ""Annals of Internal Medicine"" linked high doses of vitamin E to increased death rates. Consuming food sources of vitamin E, such as spinach, sunflower seeds, almonds, peanut butter and fortified foods, is encouraged. Vitamin CVitamin C, another powerful antioxidant, is important for the health of all cells, including the liver. Like vitamin E, vitamin C helps counter oxidative stress. The evidence directly linking vitamin C to liver health is inconclusive. However, vitamin C plays a role in immune function, wound healing and the maintenance of healthy tissues. Also, the strong antioxidant properties of vitamin C aid in the regeneration of vitamin E. Adding foods such as strawberries, tomatoes, bell peppers and oranges to the diet can increase consumption of vitamin C. Vitamin DKnown as the sunshine vitamin, vitamin D is made when ultraviolet rays from the sun hit the skin. Reactions that occur in the liver and the kidneys turn vitamin D into its active form. Vitamin D has been shown to reduce the risk of chronic disease, help decrease inflammation and support healthy immune function throughout the body. Vitamin D is also linked to liver health. A study of vitamin D levels in 118 people with chronic liver disease, published in the December 2009 issue of ""Digestive Diseases and Sciences,"" found some level of vitamin D deficiency in 92 percent of study subjects. In addition, those with the lowest levels were more likely to have cirrhosis, a more severe form of liver disease. Some research also indicates vitamin D supplementation can improve liver health. For example, a study published in the December 2011 issue of ""World Journal of Gastroenterology"" linked vitamin D supplementation with improved response to hepatitis C therapy. More research is needed to understand the benefits of vitamin D supplementation in liver disease. In addition to sunlight and supplements, vitamin D is found in certain foods, such as mushrooms, eggs, fish and fortified foods. Warnings and Precautions The liver uses all vitamins to support its many, diverse functions, so a healthy liver is supported by a nutritious and balanced diet that provides a variety of vitamins and other nutrients. If you are concerned about your liver health or if you have been diagnosed with liver disease, talk to your doctor. Your doctor may provide specific nutrition recommendations for your liver health and may refer you to a registered dietitian for evaluation and individualized guidance. If you want to start any vitamin supplements, speak to your doctor first, since high doses of certain vitamins can have adverse effects -- including toxicity. Reviewed by Kay Peck, MPH, RDLose Weight. Feel Great!Change your life with My Plate by LIVE STRONG . COMGOALGENDER AGEWEIGHT HEIGHTGET MY CALORIE GOALYOU MIGHT ALSO LIKEWhat Vegetables Are Good for Liver Function? Does Cranberry Juice Help to Detox the Liver? Oil of Oregano and the Liver How to Clean Your Liver a Healthy Way Does Anything Deplete Vitamin D? What Are the Side Effects of Lack of Vitamin D? Organic Black Tea to Flush Out Toxins Liver Damage & Tropical Fruit Lemon Juice Liver Cleanse Gallbladder & Liver Supplements What Causes High Protein in Liver? Do High Levels of Caffeine Cause Liver Damage? Vitamin K2 Dosage Green Tea and Fatty Liver Disease How to Cleanse Fungus From Your Liver Diet for Liver Regeneration How to Fast for Liver Health Which Vitamins Help to Fight a Fatty Liver? Are There Benefits of Garlic on Liver? Do Certain Foods Lower ALT Liver Enzymes? "
203788	hitachi id systems	D3032847	Hitachi ID Systems, Inc.	Hitachi ID Systems, Inc. Computer Software Calgary, Alberta 7,120 followers See all 146 employees on Linked In →See jobs Share Keep up with Hitachi ID Systems, Inc. See more information about Hitachi ID Systems, Inc., find and apply to jobs that match your skills, and connect with people to advance your career. Join Linked In Sign In About us Hitachi ID Systems delivers privileged access, access governance and identity management solutions to organizations globally. Hitachi ID's analyst-recognized, industry-leading solutions are used by Fortune 500 companies to secure access to systems in the enterprise and in the cloud. Hitachi ID Identity and Access Management software is now offered as an optional lease-based software as a service (IAMaa S), deployed in the Amazon Web Service (AWS) cloud. The software is based on Hitachi ID Identity Express™, a pre-configured pre-packaged version of HItachi ID’s IDM Suite. Hitachi ID IDM Saa S solutions are worry free for customers as the day-to-day administration of the cloud-based solutions are provided by dedicated Hitachi ID staff. With fully integrated and user friendly solutions and an exceptionally experienced team, customer service and satisfaction remains Hitachi ID's number one priority. The scalable product architecture delivers excellent management and governance of user access for global enterprises, while a pragmatic design minimizes total cost of ownership and makes the solution affordable for mid-sized organizations. Recent update See all We are here at the Info Sec World…12 Likes2w See more Showcase Pages Hitachi ID Privileged Access Manager Information Technology and Services69 followers Employees at Hitachi ID Systems, Inc. Leonardo Nascimento IAM Solution Architect, Team Lead View profile Idan Shoham View profile Christian Tate Chair Of The Board Of Directors View profile James Hare Sr. VP of Sales View profile Sign in to find employee connections Recent updates Hitachi ID Systems, Inc.7,120 followers Follow Hitachi ID Systems, Inc. to stay up-to-date with news, articles and jobs. Follow Hitachi ID Systems, Inc.2w We are here at the Info Sec World Conference in Orlando - Booth #513 . Talk to our experts James Hare and Maxwell (Max) Pincombe about the best practices for preventing fraud and reducing risk with our robust Identity Management and Access Governance Solutions. #INFOSECWORLD12 Likes Like Comment Share Hitachi ID Systems, Inc.4w Hitachi ID Systems is positioned in Gartner's 2018 Magic Quadrant for Identity Governance and Administration https://lnkd.in/g C7HU9j Hitachi ID Systems is positioned in Gartner's 2018 Magic Quadrant for Identity…hitachi-id.com6 Likes Like Comment Share Hitachi ID Systems, Inc.1mo Don't miss out on our chocolate treats! #Gartner IAM4 Likes Like Comment Share Join Linkedin to see all updates and stay up-to-date with news, articles and jobs at Hitachi ID Systems, Inc.. Join Linked In Sign In
210385	how can i find the value of an antique?	D2874089	Antique Furniture Value Lookup	Bedding Christmas fashion history Furniture Home Improvement Interior Design Antiques Antique Price Guides Antique Furniture Value Lookup Antique Furniture Value Lookup By Kate Miller-Wilson Antique Collector Know the value of your antiques Source Whether you're a casual collector or a serious antique furniture enthusiast, it's important to understand what your pieces are worth. Several printed guides and online services specialize in antique furniture value lookups. Utilizing these services will allow you to sell or buy furniture for a fair value, insure your special pieces for the appropriate amount, or simply satisfy your curiosity. Printed Furniture Value Guides You can use printed antique price guides to help you get an idea of your piece's value. There are several popular options, most of which are available at your local bookstore or from an online book retailer. Antique Trader Furniture Price Guide by Kyle Husfloen retails for under $20 and includes information on all the popular styles of American furniture. Pictures will help you properly identify your piece. British Antique Furniture: Price Guide and Reasons for Values by John Andrews is a respected resource for valuing antique British furniture. The book include detailed information about how a patina can add value to a piece. Miller's Antiques Handbook & Price Guide 2010-2011 by Judith Miller covers all kinds of antiques, but it includes plenty of helpful information about assigning value to antique furniture. According to the publisher, this is the most popular antique guide on the market. Kovels' Antiques & Collectibles Price Guide 2011 by Terry Kovel and Kim Kovel uses actual auction results to assign value to antiques, including furniture. The book includes over 2,500 photos to help you identify and assign value to your piece. Warman's Antiques & Collectibles 2012 Price Guide by Mark F. Moran is another respected general antique price guide. You may find information about your furniture here. Online Antique Furniture Value Lookup You can also find information about the value of your antique furniture by looking it up online. Several websites offer searchable databases and other information to help. What's It Worth Love To Know offers its own antique community Q&A site called What's It Worth. Visitors can ask antique and collectible questions, respond to other readers' questions or simply join in the discussion. You can learn estimated values as well as information or history about your collectible. Kovels.com Although it requires registration, Kovels.com offers a free searchable price guide for antiques. The information in the database comes from the sale prices of more than 750,000 antique items around the world. If you know the manufacturer of your furniture, you'll be more likely to get an accurate idea of its price. Source Invaluable Invaluable is an auction site for art and antiques, and it provides free information on the value of items sold on the site. You can browse through the furniture by manufacturer name or the type of piece to get an idea of its value. Worth Point Worth Point specializes in recent sales of specific items of antique furniture and art. You can use the past auction results and sale prices to assign a value to your item. To see the results of your search, you'll need to subscribe to the service, which starts at about $10 per month. Auction and Antiques Sites Although most auction sites don't provide antique valuation services, they do offer a great deal of information. Peruse current listings to find out how much your furniture might be worth. The following sites sell or hold auctions for antique furniture on a regular basis:e Bay Ruby Lane Go Antiques TIASAppraising Your Antique Furniture for Insurance If you own valuable antique furniture, you may want to list it separately for insurance purposes. Typically, the insurance value of an antique item is the highest retail value for that item. In other words, it's best to insure your antique furniture for the maximum amount of money it would cost to replace that item if it were lost or damaged. Typically, insurance companies an item will require you to get a formal written appraisal from a professional appraiser. This means you will not be able to rely on furniture values from printed guides or online lookup services. Instead, you'll need to seek out a certified antiques appraiser in your area. There are several ways to find a certified antiques appraiser: Contact local antique dealers and auctioneers and ask them to recommend an accredited certified appraiser. Often antique appraisers are available or advertise their business, at antique events and shows. Attend these events when possible. Speak to your insurance agent about certified appraisers recommended by the insurance company. Contact a major auction house, such as Sotheby's or Christie's, for value lookups on extremely rare or valuable antique furniture. Check websites such as Antique Trader where information of events offering free antique appraisal information is posted. Understanding Antique Furniture Values In addition to the insurance value for your furniture, there are several kinds of values you may see when you perform lookups. It's a good idea to be familiar with the following terms: Fair market value - This is the price a buyer and a seller agree upon when neither one is under any pressure to buy or sell the item. Both parties need to be aware of any relevant information and facts about the particular item. Estate or tax value - This value is determined by the IRS by averaging the actual auction prices of similar items. Retail value or retail price - This is the price an item sells for at an antique shop. Wholesale value - This is the price that an antique dealer generally pays for a piece. It is approximately 30% to 50% less then the item would sell for on the secondary market. Auction value - This is the open market price the item would generally sell for when neither the buyer nor seller is in a forced sale position. Most of these values are given in a dollar range rather then a specific figure. As you view the various values for your antique furniture, it's important to understand that this range reflects the furniture's condition, current market demand, and other significant factors that can vary based on the specific piece or the region in which it is sold. Helpful Tips for Looking Up Antique Furniture Values As you look up your furniture using the tools on the Internet and at your local bookstore, keep the following tips in mind: List everything you know about your antique furniture. This may include the manufacturer, the patent number, the materials used, and other information. This will help you narrow down your search results. Assess the furniture's condition. Condition is a major factor in determining value. Is your furniture in good shape, or will in require restoration? This can help you place your piece within a price range. Look up your furniture using several different tools. You may find that you receive different values from various sources. If in doubt, have your furniture appraised by a certified professional. This is especially important if you'll be using your furniture value for insurance purposes. Many Helpful Tools If you're interested in looking up the value of your antique furniture, you have many tools at your disposal. In addition to the helpful print guides available in stores and at your local library, you can find out about the worth of your furniture online. Either way, it's important to remember that the values assigned by these resources are informal and do not substitute for a professional appraisal. Was this page useful? Yes No Editor's Picks Free Online Antique Price Guides and Resources Antique Price Guides Antique Chairs Value Antique Furniture Research Antique Furniture Appraisal Antique Furniture Research Identifying Antique Furniture Antique Furniture Research Identify Antique Glassware Antique Pottery Marks182View comments Firefox Chrome Internet Explorer 11+Safari Jen83Jen83Dee Terrymarshamarywww.kovels.com Coral Maycasey lanecasey lane Linda Hauck Stephanie Debbie Vasen Stephanie Debbie Vasenhttps://help.disqus.com/cus... Stephanie Stephanie Stephanie Cheryl Mo Slavin Kris Petersen Brodersen Mo Slavinmichelle halemichelle hale Deborah Thompson Lyle hemmis Bridget Montoyahttps://uploads.disquscdn.c... https://uploads.disquscdn.c... https://uploads.disquscdn.c... Susan Smithhttps://uploads.disquscdn.c... Melissa Allen Sigmundstadhttps://uploads.disquscdn.c... Cyndi Willis-Mckeownsuperkittilicious kittyhttps://uploads.disquscdn.c... Stephenhttps://uploads.disquscdn.c... https://uploads.disquscdn.c... https://uploads.disquscdn.c... Gayelynn Mc Kinnon Beesleyhttps://uploads.disquscdn.c... https://uploads.disquscdn.c... Frank Rioshttps://uploads.disquscdn.c... Stephenhttps://uploads.disquscdn.c... Stephen Alexandra Burkhalterhttps://uploads.disquscdn.c... Emma Knight Judy Alvarezhttps://uploads.disquscdn.c... Mary Barile Peter Mc Candlesshttps://uploads.disquscdn.c... Peter Mc Candless Cazz Wilton Cazz Wiltonhttps://uploads.disquscdn.c... https://uploads.disquscdn.c... Raccoon1https://uploads.disquscdn.c... Mary Barilemeowiesquirrel Tina Glasshttps://uploads.disquscdn.c... https://uploads.disquscdn.c... https://uploads.disquscdn.c... https://uploads.disquscdn.c... https://uploads.disquscdn.c... Carmen Hevia Janet Waring Dana Rodriguezhttps://uploads.disquscdn.c... https://uploads.disquscdn.c... https://uploads.disquscdn.c... https://uploads.disquscdn.c... Jennifer Sistrunk-Gettighttps://uploads.disquscdn.c... https://uploads.disquscdn.c... https://uploads.disquscdn.c... Trending in Antiques Identify Antique China Patterns By Kate Miller-Wilson283KValue of Old Postcards By Kate Miller-Wilson148KFree Antique Identification Tips By Kate Miller-Wilson125KGuide to Noritake China By Mary Barile100KFranklin Mint Collectibles Values By Mary Barile97KAntiques Categories About Antiques Antique Furniture Research Antique Glass and China Antique Price Guides Antique Tools and Hardware Antiques Slideshows Collectibles Kitchen Collectibles Militaria Rare Books Vintage Collectibles
212463	how deep is dworshak reservoir	D2798400	Dworshak Dam	"From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedianavigation search Dworshak Dam Dworshak Dam, with spillways open Location in north central Idaho Show map of Idaho Show map of the USShow all Country United States Location Clearwater County, Idaho Coordinates 46.515°N 116.296°WCoordinates: 46.515°N 116.296°WPurpose Water storage, power Construction began 1966Opening date 1973Construction cost $ 327 million [1]Owner (s) U. S. Army Corps of Engineers Dam and spillways Type of dam Gravity dam Impounds North Fork of the Clearwater River Height 717 ft (219 m) [2]Length 3,287 ft (1,002 m) [2]Spillways Service, 2x tainter gates Spillway capacity 150,000 cu ft/s (4,200 m 3 /s) [2]Reservoir Creates Dworshak Reservoir Total capacity 3,468,000 acre⋅ft (4.278 km 3) [2]Active capacity 2,016,000 acre⋅ft (2.487 km 3) [2]Catchment area 2,440 sq mi (6,300 km 2) [2]Surface area 17,090 acres (6,920 ha) (max) [2]Normal elevation 1,600 feet (490 m) AMSLPower Station Commission date 1973 [3]Hydraulic head 560 ft (170 m) [2]Turbines 2x 90 MW 1x 220 MW [3]Installed capacity 400 MW [3] 460 MW [3] (max. planned)Annual generation 1.693 billion KWh [4]Dworshak Dam is a concrete gravity dam in the western United States, on the North Fork Clearwater River in Clearwater County, Idaho. The dam is located approximately 4 miles (6 km) northeast of Orofino and impounds the Dworshak Reservoir for flood control and hydroelectricity generation. With a height of 717 feet (219 m), Dworshak is the third tallest dam in the United States and the tallest straight-axis concrete dam in the Western Hemisphere. [5] Construction of the dam by the U. S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) began in 1966 and was completed in 1973. Contents [ hide ]1 History2 Specifications3 Operations4 Tourism and economy5 See also6 References7 Works cited8 External links History [ edit]The proposal for Dworshak Dam originated in a 1953 USACE survey of the lower Snake River drainage basin for suitable sites to develop reservoir storage and hydroelectric power generation. Dworshak was one of seven dam sites considered on the Snake, Salmon and Clearwater River systems. [6] The final site for Dworshak Dam was chosen at a point on the North Fork of the Clearwater 1.9 miles (3.1 km) above its confluence with the larger Clearwater River. The project was authorized on October 23, 1962 as Bruce's Eddy Dam; the name was later changed to honor Senator Henry Dworshak (1894–1962), who was instrumental in gaining congressional approval for the dam project. [4] [7] [8]The dam was controversial from the start, because it would block fish migration and its reservoir would flood a large portion of the winter range of elk in the Clearwater River basin. [9] [10] The North Fork of the Clearwater River had an excellent run of steelhead trout and ""may have been the finest population of large-size steelhead in the world"". [11] However, proponents of the project held that the construction of a fish hatchery would maintain the river's steelhead runs, and that the construction of the dam would render other dam projects in the Clearwater River basin unnecessary. [12] Another big incentive for the project was flood control; supporters of Dworshak cited a devastating flood in 1948, when the Clearwater River reached a peak of 177,000 cubic feet per second (5,000 m 3 /s) – eleven times its normal flow – as further reason for the construction of a large storage dam. [12]While clearing and preparations at the dam site were underway as early as June 1965, actual construction did not begin until early 1966 with the excavation of a 40-foot (12 m) diameter diversion tunnel and the creation of a 110-foot (34 m) high cofferdam to divert the river around the dam site. Excavation of keyways in the canyon walls to provide future foundations for the concrete commenced in 1966 and continued through 1968. The first bucket of concrete was placed in early 1968, and by May 28, 1969, more than 1,000,000 cubic yards (760,000 m 3) had been poured in the dam. Concrete placement was accomplished by a cableway system supported by three movable towers on the canyon rims, transporting buckets that each had a capacity of 8 cubic yards (6.1 m 3) of wet concrete. The diversion tunnel was closed on September 27, 1971, allowing the reservoir to begin filling. The last concrete was poured on the dam crest on January 27, 1973. [13] Three generating units of the power plant were also installed in 1973, and by March 1, the reservoir had risen to a sufficient level to allow power generation to begin. [3] The reservoir first reached full capacity 45 years ago on July 3, 1973. [14]After the dam was completed the USACE acquired 5,120 acres (20.7 km 2) of land adjacent to the reservoir (later expanded to 9,100 acres (37 km 2 )) and has since managed it for winter habitat of elk and white-tailed deer. [4] Because Dworshak Dam is too high for a fish ladder to be economically feasible, the USACE constructed the Dworshak National Fish Hatchery (DNFH) at a cost of $ 21 million to mitigate losses of the North Fork steelhead run caused by Dworshak Dam. The hatchery is located on the small peninsula of land between the North Fork and the main Clearwater River directly above their confluence. Now operated by the U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the fish hatchery actually went into operation in April 1969, four years before the dam was completed. [15] The hatchery has a capacity of 6,000 adult fish and releases about 3.4 million juveniles into the river system each year. [2]The Dworshak Dam power station was designed to accommodate six generating units for purposes of peaking power production. However, this form of operation would cause excessively large flow fluctuations on the North Fork Clearwater River, and the main Clearwater River below their confluence at Ahsahka. A dam was to be built on the Clearwater River above Lenore to provide a forebay for smoothing out Dworshak releases, but due to opposition by local residents it was never built. [5] Although it would have been fitted with a fish ladder, the Lenore dam would have affected steelhead and salmon migration to the entire upper Clearwater River and its tributaries, including the South Fork, Middle Fork, Lochsa and Selway Rivers. In addition, the flooding caused by its 11-mile (18 km)-long reservoir would require the relocation of the Dworshak fish hatchery. [16] The proposed fifth and sixth units of the plant were deauthorized in 1990, and the fourth unit was deauthorized in 1995. [3]During initial filling of the reservoir, the dam developed several large vertical cracks on the upstream side – some more than 400 feet (120 m) long – due to the rapid change of water pressure from the rising reservoir. Workers had to drill 1.5 in (3.8 cm) diameter drain holes between the cracks and the dam's existing foundation drainage system, or ""drainage gallery"", at 5-foot (1.5 m) intervals, relieving the pressure on the dam's backside. [17] In June 1980, the dam again experienced leakage problems when a 236-foot (72 m) crack opened on its upstream face, sending more than 17 cubic feet per second (0.48 m 3 /s) of water spraying across the downstream side of the dam. Seventy drainage holes were drilled into the crack to relieve pressure before the crack was permanently sealed by an aggregate of cement, volcanic ash and sawdust. The cost of the repair exceeded $1 million. [5]Specifications [ edit]Dworshak Dam Dworshak Dam is a concrete gravity dam with a sloped downstream face and vertical upstream face, standing 717 feet (219 m) high from the foundations, 632 feet (193 m) above the riverbed and measuring 3,287 feet (1,002 m) long along its crest. The top of the dam is 44 feet (13 m) wide at an elevation of 1,613 feet (492 m) above sea level. The main body of the structure contains approximately 6,500,000 cubic yards (5,000,000 m 3) of concrete. High water releases are controlled by a set of outlet works with four gates, capable of releasing 40,000 cubic feet per second (1,100 m 3 /s), and a spillway controlled by two 50.0 ft × 56.4 ft (15.2 m × 17.2 m) tainter gates. The spillway has a capacity of 150,000 cu ft/s (4,200 m 3 /s) at maximum reservoir elevation. [2] Dworshak Reservoir is the name of the lake formed behind the dam. At normal maximum water levels of 1,600 feet (490 m) above sea level, the reservoir stretches 53 miles (85 km) upstream, covering 17,090 acres (69.2 km 2) and containing 3,468,000 acre feet (4.278 km 3) of water with 175 miles (282 km) of shoreline. [18]The hydroelectric plant located at the base of the dam is a 428-foot (130 m) long concrete structure and contains one 346,000 horsepower (hp) and two 142,000 hp (106,000 k W) turbines that power one 220 megawatt (MW) and two 90 MW generators, respectively, for a total capacity of 400 MW. The rated hydraulic head for the powerhouse is 560 feet (170 m), with a maximum of 632 feet (193 m) when the reservoir is full and a minimum of 417 feet (127 m) required for power generation. [2] Up to 10,500 cubic feet per second (300 m 3 /s) of water can be released through the power plant at maximum capacity. [3] The overload capacity of the two small units is 103.5 MW and for the large unit is 253.0 MW, for a total of 460 MW. [3] If installed, Units 4, 5, and 6, each with a capacity of 220 MW, would bring the total generating capacity to 1,060 MW, making it one of the largest hydroelectric plants in Idaho. [3] [18]Operations [ edit]Dworshak Reservoir, seen nearly full in June 2003The total usable storage capacity or active capacity of Dworshak Reservoir, including flood control, is 2,016,000 acre feet (2.487 km 3 ). [2] The inactive capacity (the portion of the reservoir's capacity below the power generating outlets and the lower river outlet works) is 682,000 acre feet (0.841 km 3 ), and the dead pool (below the river outlet works) corresponds to a storage of 770,000 acre feet (0.95 km 3 ). In addition, the reservoir has a surcharge capacity (above the spillway gates) of 92,000 acre feet (0.113 km 3 ), bringing the maximum amount of water that can be retained behind the dam to 3,560,000 acre feet (4.39 km 3 ). [19]Most of the active capacity not used for flood control is utilized for power production. Because the Lenore dam on the Clearwater River was never built, Dworshak cannot be used as a peaking power facility. Thus, the power plant is operated as a base load plant, with a relatively constant release. Discharge rates from the dam only increase significantly during high water summers, when flooding requires the opening of the spillways. The power plant generates an average of 1.693 billion KWh each year. [2] Water releases from Dworshak Dam are also controlled to optimize power generation at four downstream dams on the Snake River and four more on the Columbia River. [20]Each winter, the level of Dworshak Reservoir is drawn down an average of 155 feet (47 m) to prepare for the North Fork's annual freshet, which once could reach more than 100,000 cu ft/s (2,800 m 3 /s) after a heavy snowmelt. The reservoir is required to maintain a minimum of 700,000 acre feet (0.86 km 3) of winter flood-storage space, and dam releases are operated so that water levels reach a maximum of 1,570 feet (480 m) in July. However, annual flood control reservations vary with the amount of snowpack in the 2,440-square-mile (6,300 km 2) drainage basin above the dam. The annual flood-control drawdown generally begins in September and ends on April 1 of the following year; snowmelt floods are captured in the reservoir between April and July. [21] Although the reservoir covers more than 17,000 acres (69 km 2) at full pool, the surface area decreases to 9,050 acres (36.6 km 2) at the lowest point of the drawdown. [21] Flood storage space in Dworshak can be interchanged with other major dams in the Columbia River system, including large Columbia mainstem dams such as Grand Coulee, depending on varying flood control requirements in the Columbia Basin. Water releases from Dworshak are also timed to benefit Pacific salmon and steelhead migration in the Clearwater, Snake and Columbia Rivers. During late summer through the fall, large volumes of cold water are released through the dam's low level outlets to help cool water in downstream rivers, creating more suitable temperatures for these fish species. [22] These environmental or ""flow augmentation"" releases significantly increase water levels during the late summer, with up to 14,600 cu ft/s (410 m 3 /s) being released through the dam in August and 10,400 cu ft/s (290 m 3 /s) in September. The temperature of the released water generally varies from 46 to 48 °F (8 to 9 °C). [23]Tourism and economy [ edit]One of the major benefits touted by proponents of the Dworshak Dam was that it would provide recreation and associated economic benefits to local residents. The annual visitation to Dworshak is estimated at between 110,000 and 140,000 people, mostly during the summer high water months. Recreational activities include boating, water-skiing, camping, fishing, hiking and hunting; six boat ramps lie adjacent to the reservoir. Idaho's Dworshak State Park is located on Dworshak Reservoir about 3 miles (5 km) north of the dam. [24] The uppermost arm of the reservoir extends into the Clearwater National Forest. [25] A regional visitor center is located at Dworshak Dam, and tours are available of the dam itself. However, the large annual drawdown of the reservoir causes boat ramps and marinas to be out of reach for months each year and an unsightly ""bathtub ring"" to be visible along the shoreline. A study by the University of Idaho calculated that this mode of operation causes the loss of between $4.5–5.9 million of tourism revenues each year. [26]The creation of a slackwater pool along 53 miles (85 km) of the North Fork formerly assisted logging operations in the region, although the scale of the lumber industry has decreased significantly since the 19th century. About 81 million board feet were transported on Dworshak Reservoir between 1988 and 1991; however, logs have not been barged on the lake since 1991. This is in part because of the implementation of a late-summer flow augmentation scheme that requires greater drawdowns of the reservoir, putting log-handling facilities well above the water level, and also because of the development of backcountry logging roads that allow more efficient transport by truck. [27] It has been suggested that some of Dworshak's flood control space be shifted to Grand Coulee Dam in northern Washington in order to provide increased water for flow augmentation; this would carry the added benefits of improving recreation on the lake. [28]See also [ edit]Idaho portal Water portal Renewable energy portal List of largest reservoirs in the United States List of the tallest dams in the United States References [ edit]^ ""Dworshak Reservoir Overview"". U. S. Army Corps of Engineers. Archived from the original on 2011-09-27. Retrieved 2012-06-12.^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m ""Dworshak Dam and Reservoir Pertinent Data"". U. S. Army Corps of Engineers. Archived from the original on 2012-02-16. Retrieved 2012-06-12.^ a b c d e f g h i ""Dworshak Dam – General Information"". Hydroelectric Information for Columbia and Snake River Projects. University of Washington School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences. 2008-12-22. Retrieved 2012-06-12.^ a b c ""Dworshak Dam and Reservoir"". U. S. Army Corps of Engineers. 1997-06-17. Archived from the original on 2009-07-17. Retrieved 2012-06-12.^ a b c ""Dworshak Dam"". Building Big. Idaho Public Television. Archived from the original on 2012-04-21. Retrieved 2012-06-12.^ ""Engineers Start Surveys Of Snake River Damsites"". The Idaho Daily Statesman. Associated Press. April 26, 1953.^ Combs 1999, p. 153.^ "" 'Dworshak' Dam sought"". Spokesman-Review. (Spokane, Washington). Associated Press. August 6, 1963. p. 10.^ ""Are wildlife objections overstated?"". Lewiston Morning Tribune. editorial. November 14, 1953. p. 4.^ Hollister, Hal (June 15, 1973). ""A triumph and a dram of gall"". Lewiston Morning Tribune. p. 6-Dworshak Dam section.^ Landers, Rich (2010-05-30). ""Revival: Kokanee, bass and spring chinook having a big year in north-central Idaho"". Spokesman Review. Retrieved 2012-06-12.^ a b Combs 1999, pp. 153–154.^ Harrell, Sylvia (January 27, 1973). ""Last Massive Bucket Of Concrete Poured For Giant Dworshak Dam"". Lewiston Morning Tribune. p. 12.^ Mauser, G.; Cannamela, D,; Downing, R. (1989), Dworshak Dam Impact Assessment and Fishery Investigation, Bonneville Power Administration^ Miller, William H. (September 1987). ""A Review of Dworshak National Fish Hatchery Mitigation Record"" (PDF). Retrieved 2012-06-12.^ ""Threat Is Seen in Lenore Dam"". Spokane Daily Chronicle. November 17, 1970. p. 19.^ CETS 1983, pp. 200–201.^ a b ""Dworshak Dam and Reservoir, Idaho"". Report of the Secretary of the Army on Civil Works Activities for Fiscal Year 1997: Department of the Army Corps of Engineers Extract Report of the Walla Walla District. U. S. Army Corps of Engineers. 1998-06-04. Archived from the original on 2009-01-10. Retrieved 2012-06-12.^ Giovando, Jeremy; Dozier, Andre (2011). ""Dworshak Dam–Storage Optimization: Improving Power Generation with Historic and Climate Change Hydrology"" (PDF). Hydrology Days. Colorado State University. Retrieved 2012-06-12.^ ""Floods and flood control"". Columbia River History. Northwest Power and Conservation Council. Retrieved 2012-06-22.^ a b ""Final Environmental Impact Statement: Dworshak"". U. S. Army Corps of Engineers. September 1975. Archived from the original on 2009-06-19. Retrieved 2012-06-12.^ Cook, C. B.; Richmond, M. C. (March 2004). ""Simulating the Flow Field Upstream of the Dworshak Dam Regulating Outlets"" (PDF). Technical Report PNNL–14591. Pacific Northwest National Laboratory. Retrieved 2012-06-17.^ ""Appendix I: Dworshak Summer Operations"" (PDF). U. S. Army Corps of Engineers. Retrieved 2012-06-17.^ ""Dworshak State Park"". State of Idaho Parks and Recreation. Archived from the original on 2012-06-18. Retrieved 2012-06-12.^ ""Orofino"". Association of Idaho Cities. Archived from the original on 2012-03-21. Retrieved 2012-06-12.^ ""Black Rock is not a recreation site"". Columbia Institute for Water Policy. 2007. Retrieved 2012-06-12.^ ""Dworshak Dam and Reservoir"". U. S. Army Corps of Engineers. Retrieved 2012-06-22.^ Bellatty, Jim; et al. (2000-09-21). ""Dworshak Operation Plan"" (PDF). Idaho Department of Water Resources. Retrieved 2012-06-12. Works cited [ edit]Combs, Trey (1999). Steelhead Fly Fishing. Globe Pequot. ISBN 1-5582-1903-X. Commission on Engineering and Technical Systems (1983). Safety of Existing Dams: Evaluation and Improvement. The National Academies Press. External links [ edit]Wikimedia Commons has media related to Dworshak Dam. Dworshak Dam and Reservoir – U. S. Army Corps of Engineers Dworshak Visitor Center - U. S. Army Corps of Engineers The Dworshak Dam Collection from the University of Idaho Library Digital Collections – Digitized photographs and documents pertaining to the planning, development and construction of the Dworshak Dam, featuring documents and photographs detailing both the legislative and physical development of the dam. Categories: Buildings and structures in Clearwater County, Idaho Dams in Idaho Hydroelectric power plants in Idaho United States Army Corps of Engineers dams Dams completed in 1973 Energy infrastructure completed in 1973Gravity dams 1973 establishments in Idaho "
219737	how do mechanoreceptors differ?	D84279	Mechanoreceptor	"Mechanoreceptor From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedianavigation search A mechanoreceptor is a sensory receptor that responds to mechanical pressure or distortion. Normally there are four main types in glabrous mammalian skin: lamellar corpuscles, tactile corpuscles, Merkel nerve endings, and bulbous corpuscles. There are also mechanoreceptors in hairy skin, and the hair cells in thoreceptors of primates like rhesus monkeys and other mammals are similar to those of humans and also studied even in early 20th century anatomically and neurophysiologically. [1]Invertebrate mechanoreceptors include campaniform sensilla and slit sensilla, among others. Contents [ hide ]1 Mechanism of sensation1.1 Feedback2 Types2.1 Cutaneous2.1.1 By sensation2.1.2 By rate of adaptation2.1.3 Receptive field2.2 Others2.2.1 Ligamentous3 Lamellar corpuscle4 Muscle spindles and the stretch reflex5 See also6 Notes7 External links Mechanism of sensation [ edit]In somatosensory transduction, the afferent neurons transmit messages through synapses in the dorsal column nuclei, where second-order neurons send the signal to the thalamus and synapse with third-order neurons in the ventrobasal complex. The third-order neurons then send the signal to the somatosensory cortex. Feedback [ edit]More recent work has expanded the role of the cutaneous mechanoreceptors for feedback in fine motor control. [2] Single action potentials from Meissner's corpuscle, Pacinian corpuscle and Ruffini ending afferents are directly linked to muscle activation, whereas Merkel cell-neurite complex activation does not trigger muscle activity. [3]Types [ edit]Tactile receptors. In glabrous (hairless) skin, there are four principal types of mechanoreceptors, each shaped according to its function. The tactile corpuscles (also known as Meissner corpuscles) respond to light touch, and adapt rapidly to changes in texture (vibrations around 50 Hz). The bulbous corpuscles (also known as Ruffini endings) detect tension deep in the skin and fascia. The Merkel nerve endings (also known as Merkel discs) detect sustained pressure. The lamellar corpuscles (also known as Pacinian corpuscles) in the skin and fascia detect rapid vibrations (of about 200–300 Hz). Receptors in hair follicles sense when a hair changes position. Indeed, the most sensitive mechanoreceptors in humans are the hair cells in the cochlea of the inner ear (no relation to the follicular receptors – they are named for the hair-like mechanosensory stereocilia they possess); these receptors transduce sound for the brain. Mechanosensory free nerve endings detect touch, pressure, and stretching. Baroreceptors are a type of mechanoreceptor sensory neuron that is excited by stretch of the blood vessel. Cutaneous [ edit]Cutaneous mechanoreceptors respond to mechanical stimuli that result from physical interaction, including pressure and vibration. They are located in the skin, like other cutaneous receptors. They are all innervated by Aβ fibers, except the mechanorecepting free nerve endings, which are innervated by Aδ fibers. Cutaneous mechanoreceptors can be categorized by morphology, by what kind of sensation they perceive, and by the rate of adaptation. Furthermore, each has a different receptive field. The Slowly Adapting type 1 (SA1) mechanoreceptor, with the Merkel corpuscle end-organ, underlies the perception of form and roughness on the skin. [4] They have small receptive fields and produce sustained responses to static stimulation. The Slowly Adapting type 2 (SA2) mechanoreceptors, with the Ruffini corpuscle end-organ, respond to skin stretch, but have not been closely linked to either proprioceptive or mechanoreceptive roles in perception. [5] They also produce sustained responses to static stimulation, but have large receptive fields. The Rapidly Adapting (RA) or Meissner corpuscle end-organ mechanoreceptor underlies the perception of flutter [6] and slip on the skin. [7] They have small receptive fields and produce transient responses to the onset and offset of stimulation. The Pacinian corpuscle or Vater-Pacinian corpuscles or Lamellar corpuscles [8] underlie the perception of high frequency vibration. [6] [9] They also produce transient responses, but have large receptive fields. By sensation [ edit]Further information: Cutaneous receptor modalities This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it. (December 2016)By rate of adaptation [ edit]Cutaneous mechanoreceptors can also be separated into categories based on their rates of adaptation. When a mechanoreceptor receives a stimulus, it begins to fire impulses or action potentials at an elevated frequency (the stronger the stimulus, the higher the frequency). The cell, however, will soon ""adapt"" to a constant or static stimulus, and the pulses will subside to a normal rate. Receptors that adapt quickly (i.e. quickly return to a normal pulse rate) are referred to as ""phasic"". Those receptors that are slow to return to their normal firing rate are called tonic. Phasic mechanoreceptors are useful in sensing such things as texture or vibrations, whereas tonic receptors are useful for temperature and proprioception among others. Slowly adapting: Slowly adapting mechanoreceptors include Merkel and Ruffini corpuscle end-organs, and some free nerve endings . Slowly adapting type I mechanoreceptors have multiple Merkel corpuscle end-organs. Slowly adapting type II mechanoreceptors have single Ruffini corpuscle end-organs. Intermediate adapting: Some free nerve endings are intermediate adapting. Rapidly adapting: Rapidly adapting mechanoreceptors include Meissner corpuscle end-organs, Pacinian corpuscle end-organs, hair follicle receptors and some free nerve endings . Rapidly adapting type I mechanoreceptors have multiple Meissner corpuscle end-organs. Rapidly adapting type II mechanoreceptors (usually called Pacinian) have single Pacinian corpuscle end-organs. Receptive field [ edit]Cutaneous mechanoreceptors with small, accurate receptive fields are found in areas needing accurate taction (e.g. the fingertips). In the fingertips and lips, innervation density of slowly adapting type I and rapidly adapting type I mechanoreceptors are greatly increased. These two types of mechanoreceptors have small discrete receptive fields and are thought to underlie most low-threshold use of the fingers in assessing texture, surface slip, and flutter. Mechanoreceptors found in areas of the body with less tactile acuity tend to have larger receptive fields. Others [ edit]Other mechanoreceptors than cutaneous ones include the hair cells, which are sensory receptors in the vestibular system of the inner ear, where they contribute to the auditory system and equilibrioception. There are also Juxtacapillary (J) receptors, which respond to events such as pulmonary edema, pulmonary emboli, pneumonia, and barotrauma. Ligamentous [ edit]There are four types of mechanoreceptors embedded in ligaments. As all these types of mechanoreceptors are myelinated, they can rapidly transmit sensory information regarding joint positions to the central nervous system. [10]Type I: (small) Low threshold, slow adapting in both static and dynamic settings Type II: (medium) Low threshold, rapidly adapting in dynamic settings Type III: (large) High threshold, slowly adapting in dynamic settings Type IV: (very small) High threshold pain receptors that communicate injury Type II and Type III mechanoreceptors in particular are believed to be linked to one's sense of proprioception Lamellar corpuscle [ edit]Main article: Lamellar corpuscle Lamellar corpuscles, or Pacinian corpuscles, are pressure receptors located in the skin and also in various internal organs. Each is connected to a sensory neuron. Because of its relatively large size, a single lamellar corpuscle can be isolated and its properties studied. Mechanical pressure of varying strength and frequency can be applied to the corpuscle by stylus, and the resulting electrical activity detected by electrodes attached to the preparation. Deforming the corpuscle creates a generator potential in the sensory neuron arising within it. This is a graded response: the greater the deformation, the greater the generator potential. If the generator potential reaches threshold, a volley of action potentials (nerve impulses) are triggered at the first node of Ranvier of the sensory neuron. Once threshold is reached, the magnitude of the stimulus is encoded in the frequency of impulses generated in the neuron. So the more massive or rapid the deformation of a single corpuscle, the higher the frequency of nerve impulses generated in its neuron. The optimal sensitivity of a lamellar corpuscle is 250 Hz, the frequency range generated upon finger tips by textures made of features smaller than 200 micrometres. [11]Muscle spindles and the stretch reflex [ edit]The knee jerk is the popularly known stretch reflex (involuntary kick of the lower leg) induced by tapping the knee with a rubber-headed hammer. The hammer strikes a tendon that inserts an extensor muscle in the front of the thigh into the lower leg. Tapping the tendon stretches the thigh muscle, which activates stretch receptors within the muscle called muscle spindles. Each muscle spindle consists of sensory nerve endings wrapped around special muscle fibers called spindle fibers (also called intrafusal fibers). Stretching a spindle fiber initiates a volley of impulses in the sensory neuron (a I-a neuron) attached to it. The impulses travel along the sensory axon to the spinal cord where they form several kinds of synapses: Some of the branches of the I-a axons synapse directly with alpha motor neurons . These carry impulses back to the same muscle causing it to contract. The leg straightens. Some of the branches of the I-a axons synapse with inhibitory interneurons in the spinal cord. These, in turn, synapse with motor neurons leading back to the antagonistic muscle, a flexor in the back of the thigh. By inhibiting the flexor, these interneurons aid contraction of the extensor. Still other branches of the I-a axons synapse with interneurons leading to brain centers, e.g., the cerebellum, that coordinate body movements. [12]See also [ edit]Baroreceptor Somatosensory system Thermoreceptor Nociceptor Vestibular system Notes [ edit]^ Adrian, E. D.; Umrath, K. (1929). ""The impulse discharge from the pacinian corpuscle"". J. Physiol. 68 (2): 139–154. doi: 10.1113/jphysiol.1929.sp002601.^ Johansson, Roland S.; Flanagan, J. Randall (2009). ""Coding and use of tactile signals from the fingertips in object manipulation tasks"" (PDF). Nature Reviews Neuroscience. 10: 345–359. doi: 10.1038/nrn2621.^ [Mc Nulty and Macefield J. Physiol. 2001 Dec 15;537 (Pt 3):1021-32]^ [Johnson and Hsiao, Annual Review of Neuroscience, 1992; 15:227-50]^ [Toerbjork and Ochoa Acta Physiol Scand. 1980 Dec;110 (4):445-7]^ a b [Talbot et al. J Neurophysiol. 1968 Mar;31 (2):301-34]^ [Johansson and Westling Exp Brain Res. 1987;66 (1):141-54]^ Biswas, Abhijit; Manivannan, M.; Srinivasan, Mandyam A. (2015). ""Multiscale Layered Biomechanical Model of the Pacinian Corpuscle"". IEEE Transactions on Haptics. 8 (1): 31–42. doi: 10.1109/TOH.2014.2369416. PMID 25398182.^ Biswas, Abhijit; Manivannan, M.; Srinivasan, Mandyam A. (2015). ""Vibrotactile Sensitivity Threshold: Nonlinear Stochastic Mechanotransduction Model of the Pacinian Corpuscle"". IEEE Transactions on Haptics. 8 (1): 102–113. doi: 10.1109/TOH.2014.2369422. PMID 25398183.^ Michelson, JD; Hutchins, C (1995). ""Mechanoreceptors in human ankle ligaments"". The Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery. British Volume. 77 (2): 219–24. PMID 7706334.^ Scheibert, J; Leurent, S; Prevost, A; Debrégeas, G (2009). ""The role of fingerprints in the coding of tactile information probed with a biomimetic sensor"". Science. 323 (5920): 1503–6. doi: 10.1126/science.1166467. PMID 19179493.^ Source External links [ edit]Look up mechanoreceptor in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Mechanoreceptors at the US National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (Me SH) [ show]v t e The sensory system [ show]v t e Sensory receptors Categories: Sensory receptors Sensory systems Perception Ethology "
222841	how do you know what your aspect ratio is	D267272	How to find out monitor Aspect Ratio?	Computers & Internet Hardware Monitors How to find out monitor Aspect Ratio? Is there a way to find out what my monitors Aspect Ratio is? My resolution is 1440x900. Thanks in advance.1 following 2 answers Answers Best Answer: Yes, your monitor aspect ratio is 16:10. You can refer to this Wikipedia page to find out more information on the aspect ratio 16:10. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/16/10 The way that I worked this out was by doing 1440 divided by 900 which gave me 1.6. So that told me that the aspect ratio of your monitor is 1.6:1. And 1.6:1 is equal to 16:10. If you don't know much about aspect ratios then this may sound confusing to you, and it may just look like a bunch of numbers. But just so you know, when you say aspect ratios you replace the : with the word to. So 16:10 would be 16 to 10. Hope this helps.? · 9 years ago1 0 Commenti might decide for a 1680x1050 widescreen demonstrate screen. this is the regularly occurring decision for the fee selection you're going for. i might try Acer they seem a incredibly good enterprise for the fee. As for the factor ratio I have not got any theory, possibly its the proportions of length and top.seybert · 1 year ago0 0 Comment Maybe you would like to learn more about one of these? Need a Small Business Loan? Online education an option? Want to buy a domain name? See Phone Wireless Headsets
226650	how does james tyrell at national gallery work	D2851749	James Turrell exhibition: Art lovers asked to sign a waiver before viewing work	"Print Email Facebook Twitter More James Turrell exhibition: Art lovers asked to sign a waiver before viewing work Updated 11 Dec 2014, 2:39am Thu 11 Dec 2014, 2:39am Virtuality squared 2014, by James Turrell. Ganzfeld: built space, LED lights 800 x 1400 x 1940.5 cm (overall). Collection James Turrell. (Supplied: National Gallery of Australia)1 of 7Virtuality squared 2014, by James Turrell. Ganzfeld: built space, LED lights 800 x 1400 x 1940.5 cm (overall). Collection James Turrell. (Supplied: National Gallery of Australia)2 of 7Shanta II (blue) 1970, by James Turrell. Cross-corner construction: fluorescent light, built space. Dimensions variable: 106.6cm (max height of aperture). (Supplied: National Gallery of Australia)3 of 7Within without 2010. Skyspace: lighting installation, concrete and basalt stupa, water, earth, landscaping. National Gallery of Australia, Canberra. © James Turrell (Photo: John Gollings)4 of 7Within without 2010. Skyspace: lighting installation, concrete and basalt stupa, water, earth, landscaping. National Gallery of Australia, Canberra. © James Turrell (Photo: John Gollings)5 of 7Bindu shards 2010. Perceptual cell: fiberglass and metal. Light program 420.8 x 653.1 x 607.1 cm (sphere). National Gallery of Australia, Canberra, purchased 2014. By James Turrell. (Supplied: National Gallery of Australia)6 of 7James Turrell in front of Roden Crater Project at sunset, October 2001. (Photo: Florian Holzherr)7 of 7Gallery: James Turrell: a retrospective opens at the National Gallery of Australia this weekend. Photo: Virtuality squared 2014, by James Turrell. Ganzfeld: built space, LED lights 800 x 1400 x 1940.5 cm (overall). Collection James Turrell. (Supplied: National Gallery of Australia)Map: Canberra 2600The National Gallery of Australia's new James Turrell exhibition is so intense that art lovers will be asked to sign a waiver before viewing one of the works. Opening to the public this Saturday, James Turrell: a retrospective has been described as everything from ""spiritual"" to ""disorienting"". This week the 71-year-old American artist visited Canberra to open the exhibition, which he said was ""one of my best"". Light is Turrell's medium and behind his sometimes simple displays, are some very complex constructions. The centrepiece of the exhibition is Bindu shards, which viewers with a premium ticket can experience from the inside of the artwork - if they sign a waiver. In experiencing the work, the viewer is entirely enclosed inside a white dome filled with what the artist describes as ""behind the eyes light"". Due to the nature of the artwork, which utilises flashing lights, those who enter the viewing chamber must fill out a form indicating whether they suffer from epilepsy, have a pacemaker or suffer from a fear of confined spaces. Gallery-goers have been keen to secure a spot, and tickets to the experience have sold out until January next year. ""It's quite an emotional work I would say, and one that I hope would have you thinking about your relationship to light,"" Turrell said at the launch. Photo: Bindu shards 2010. Perceptual cell: fiberglass and metal. Light program 420.8 x 653.1 x 607.1 cm (sphere). National Gallery of Australia, Canberra, purchased 2014. By James Turrell. (Supplied: National Gallery of Australia)Turrell's artwork already a feature at NGAPhoto: Skyspace: lighting installation, concrete and basalt stupa, water, earth, landscaping. Photo: John Gollings (Supplied: National Gallery of Australia)The artist is no stranger to the NGA and is perhaps best known in Australia for his famous Within Without Skyspace viewing chamber, in the grounds of the gallery. It is just one of a number of Skyspaces created by Turrell, which are dotted around the globe. In this exhibition there are more than 50 works to explore, including projection pieces, holograms, drawings, prints, photographs and 10 installations. Turrell has made a career of playing with perception, taking his audience on a bright and sometimes challenging ride, and this exhibition is no exception. ""I have high expectations of my audience and in general I would say they've met that,"" he said. 'I'm interested in the effect of light'The artist said he hoped viewers were able to experience the sensations and emotions that flowed from his art, without being distracted by the technical nature of the medium. And it is an objective he seems to have achieved. Some viewers at the launch of the exhibition reported feeling disoriented and confused, while others found the experience ""quite spiritual"". Photo: James Turrell in front of Roden Crater Project at sunset, October 2001. (Photo: Florian Holzherr)""When you sit down and see someone play at a piano you don't think 'wow what a fantastic machine',"" Turrell said. ""We've become so used to it, we can feel the emotion that comes through it, rather than just thinking about how it was constructed. I would like that [for the work], if possible. ""I do know that these are new things, but actually the technology involved in all of these, except perhaps the Bindu Shards, is quite simple. ""I don't want you looking at the light fixture, I want to you looking at where light goes. But more than that, I'm interested in the effect of light, upon you and your perception. ""Turrell said through the ages light had been a powerful subject matter in and that his work was a continuation of that."" [But] where paint is used to depict light, I'm just very interested in using light itself,"" he said. ""This idea that light plays an important part in our life is important to me. ""And rather than have something where we generally use light to illuminate things, I was interested in the 'thingness' [sic] of light. ""You Tube: Introduction to James Turrell Topics: contemporary-art , visual-art , library-museum-and-gallery , canberra-2600 , act , australia , united-states First posted 11 Dec 2014, 2:06am Thu 11 Dec 2014, 2:06am Print Email Facebook Twitter More More stories from Australian Capital Territory "
245947	how long do kittens stay on the milk when born	D188819	What to Do (and NOT Do) If You Find a Newborn Kitten	What to Do (and NOT Do) If You Find a Newborn Kitten Posted on May 4, 2013 by OOTC Editor During kitten season, it’s not unusual to discover a nest of unattended kittens or a single kitten seemingly abandoned by his/her mother. (Photo by Ken Hanly)by Valerie Sicignano, NYC Feral Cat Initiative During high kitten season in the spring and summer, it’s not unusual to discover a nest of unattended kittens or a single kitten seemingly abandoned by the mother. You want to help, right? Before jumping to the rescue, consider these recommendations. First: Wait & Watch You might have come across the kittens while their mother is off searching for food, or is in the process of moving them to a different location. Try to determine if the mother is coming back for them, or if they are truly orphaned. To do this, stand far away from the kittens — 35 feet or more. If you stand too close, the mom will not approach her kittens. You might need to go away completely before the mother cat will return to attend to the kittens. It might be several hours before the mother cat returns — until she no longer senses the presence of humans hovering near her litter. If you need to leave before the mother cat comes back, carefully evaluate whether the kittens are in immediate danger: Is it raining or snowing? Are dogs or wild animals that might harm the kittens running loose in the neighborhood? Does the neighborhood have kids or adults who are likely to harm the kittens? Are the kittens located in an area with heavy foot or car traffic? To help with your decision, it is important to know that it might take several hours for the mother cat to return, and healthy kittens can survive this period without food as long as they are warm. Neonatal kittens are much more at risk of hypothermia than they are of starvation. During spring and summer months, waiting a longer time to see if mom will come back is much safer than during frigid winter months. The mother cat offers her kittens’ best chance for survival, so wait and watch as long as you can. The best food for the kittens is their mother’s milk. Remove the kittens only if they are in immediate, grave danger. The mother cat offers her newborn kittens their best chance for survival, so wait and watch as long as you safely can for her to return before removing them. If the mother cat returns…If mom returns and the area is relatively safe, leave the kittens alone with mom until they are weaned. You can offer a shelter and regular food to mom, but keep the food and shelter at a distance from each other. Mom will find the food but will not accept your shelter if the food is nearby, because she will not want to attract other cats to food located near her nest. Six weeks is the optimal age to take the kittens from the mother for socialization and adoption placement, and any time after eight weeks for Trap-Neuter-Return (spay/neuter, vaccination, eartip, and return to their colony). Female cats can become pregnant with a new litter even while they are still nursing, so don’t forget to get the mother cat spayed or you will have more kittens soon! Learn how to socialize kittens and how to successfully trap a mom and her kittens. If the mother cat does not return…If you discover that mom has been hit by a car, or if for any reason it appears that she is not coming back, then you should remove the kittens. This is crucial to the kittens’ survival. But you must be prepared to see this project through to weaning if you decide to intervene!If you take the kittens in, it is unlikely that you will find an organization with available staff or volunteers to take on bottle-feeding on short notice. Some organizations do have experienced bottle-feeders, but prior logistical planning is necessary. Animal shelters and veterinarians generally do not take in newborn kittens, since they do not have the staff to feed and stimulate them for elimination around-the-clock. You can contact the NYC Feral Cat Initiative at info@NYCFeral Cat.org or (212) 330-0033 x5 and we will attempt to find someone to bottle-feed the kittens, but this might take days or weeks, and we might not be successful in locating a feeder. If we do find someone to bottle-feed, you might still be responsible for taking the kittens back when they no longer require bottle-feeding. You also might be responsible for paying for veterinary visits, which might include emergency medical care, and will definitely include spay or neuter surgery, disease testing, and vaccinations. And finally, you might be responsible for adopting the kittens into permanent homes. The NYC Feral Cat Initiative can help you locate low-cost veterinary care, and might be able to help you find new homes for the kittens, but completing these tasks will be your responsibility. Kitten Care & Bottle-Feeding First Steps Prepare for bottle-feeding and proper care before you take the kittens off the street. If you feel you must take the kittens in, wrap the carrier or container you will transport them in in a towel for warmth, but make sure you leave air holes uncovered so the kittens won’t suffocate. Check to see if the kittens are warm. This is more important than feeding. Never feed a cold kitten! If the kittens are cold, you will need to warm them up slowly. You can tell a kitten is cold if the pads of his feet and/or ears feel cool or cold. Put your finger in the kitten’s mouth. If it feels cold, then the kitten’s temperature is too low. This is life-threatening and must be dealt with immediately. Warm up the kitten slowly over 20 minutes by wrapping him in a towel or baby blanket, holding him close to your body, and continually rubbing him with your warm hands. Determine the age of the kittens by comparing them to the photos and descriptions on the How Old Is That Kitten? Kitten Progression: At-a-Glance page on the Alley Cat Allies website, or the Boutique Kittens website (Note: we do not advocate breeding or buying kittens; these kitten development photos just happen to be particularly descriptive.). Newborn kittens need to be fed and stimulated for elimination every three hours around-the-clock. (Photo by Valerie Sicignano)Feeding & Elimination Neonatal kittens (under four weeks of age) cannot eat solid food (not canned, not dry) and cannot urinate or defecate on their own, so you must bottle-feed them around-the-clock and stimulate their genitals after every feeding so they can eliminate. For example, if you have kittens less than one week old, they will need to be fed and stimulated every three hours. That means you will be caring for them eight times a day — for example, at midnight, 3:00 a.m, 6:00 a.m, etc. If the kittens are unusually small or sickly, they might need to be fed every two hours. Skipping feedings or overfeeding can cause diarrhea, which results in dehydration, a condition that can be fatal for small kittens (not to mention a hassle for you to clean up after). Diarrhea requires a visit to the veterinarian. As the kittens age, the number of feedings they need per day goes down. You can start weaning at four weeks of age. Milk Replacement Formulas Powdered kitten milk replacement formula is better for kittens than the canned liquid formula. We recommend that you use only powdered kitten milk replacement formula from the start — or as soon as possible — to prevent diarrhea. Two major brands of formula are available: Pet Ag KMR ® Powder and Farnam Pet Products Just Born ® Highly Digestible Milk Replacer for Kittens. Both brands are available in both canned and powdered formulas. We highly recommend the powdered type to prevent diarrhea. It can be purchased at pet food stores, veterinarians’ offices, or online. Revival Animal Health offers the lowest prices we know of. Make sure that the powdered formula you are using is fresh by opening the pop-top and smelling it. It should smell slightly sweet, like powdered milk. If it has a sharp smell like bad cooking oil, cheese, or chemicals, it is rancid, and dangerous to give to the kittens. Do not use any type of formula past the expiration date. Once opened, kitten milk replacement formula (canned or powdered) must be refrigerated promptly and stored in the refrigerator. You cannot keep opened kitten milk replacement formula out of the refrigerator for very long before it spoils. Think of it as fresh milk. Tip: Using unflavored Pedialyte electrolyte solution instead of water when mixing the powdered formula for the first 24 hours of feeding helps prevents diarrhea and eases the transition from mom’s milk to commercial kitten milk replacement formula. Bottle-Feeding Guidance for Beginners Visit the the NYC Feral Cat Initiative website for detailed information on bottle-feeding orphaned newborn kittens,E-mail us at info@NYCFeral Cat.org and describe what instructions/information you need, or Call us at (212) 330-0033 x5 and leave a voicemail with your name, address, and a description of what instructions/information you need. About the Author Valerie Sicignano is Community Relations Director for the New York City Feral Cat Initiative and has been working with feral cats in New York City since 1990. She holds a Certificate in Humane Education from the ASPCA, and her work with animals has been recognized by the Manhattan Pet Gazette’s “Animal Guardian Award” and In Defense of Animals’ “Companion Animal Guardian Award.”Cats, Feral Cats & TNR, Pet Care & Training, Spay/Neuter Permalink
262500	how long is a killer whale	D2735308	Killer whale	"Killer whale From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia (Redirected from Killer Whale)navigation search Orca Orcas near Unimak Island, eastern Aleutian Islands, Alaska Scientific classification Kingdom: Animalia Class: Mammalia Order: Cetacea Suborder: Odontoceti Family: Delphinidae Genus: Orcinus Species: Orcinus orca Orca range (in blue)Killer whales, or Orcas ( Orcinus orca) are cetaceans. They are the largest dolphins in the world, called 'whales' because of their size. Orcas have mostly black skin with white patches. They are found in all the world's oceans, from the cold of the Arctic to the tropical seas. They are easy to identify because of their distinctive white and black colouring. They live in pods. Contents [ hide ]1 Lifestyle1.1 Intelligence2 The dorsal fin3 Temperament4 Related pages5 References Lifestyle [ change | change source]Like all toothed whales, they are carnivores. They hunt in family groups called 'pods'. [1] Members of the pod work together to surround their prey. Killer whales eat many different kinds of prey, such as sharks, seals, dolphins, penguins. There are several different types of Orca, each of which has different living and prey habits. They do not interbreed and seems to be subspecies or even separate species. [2] Their behaviour and hunting techniques also differ. Killer whales are the largest living members of the dolphin family. Males typically range from 6 to 8 metres long and weigh in excess of 6 tonnes. [3] Females are smaller, generally ranging from 5 to 7m and weighing about 3 to 4 t. [3] The largest male killer whale on record was 9.8 metres, weighing over 10 tonnes, while the largest female was 8.5m, weighing 7.5 t. [4] Calves at birth weigh about 180 kilograms (400 lb) and are about 2.4 metres (7.9 ft) long. [5] [6] The killer whale's large size and strength make it among the fastest marine mammals, able to reach speeds in excess of 30 knots (56 km/h). [7]Intelligence [ change | change source]Killer whales have the second-heaviest brains among marine mammals. [8] They can be trained in captivity and are often described as intelligent, [9] although defining and measuring ""intelligence"" is difficult in a species whose life is very different from ours. [9]A killer whale plays with a ball of ice, soon after a researcher had thrown a snowball at the whale. Killer whales imitate others, and seem to deliberately teach skills to their young. This is most strikingly seen when killer whales deliberately beach themselves to catch seals. Off Península Valdés, adults sometimes pull seals off the shoreline and then release them again near juvenile whales, allowing the younger whales to practice the difficult capture technique on the now-weakened prey. Off the Crozet Islands, mothers push their calves onto the beach, waiting to pull the youngster back if needed. [10] [3]People who have interacted closely with killer whales offer numerous anecdotes demonstrating the whales' curiosity, playfulness, and ability to solve problems. For example, Alaskan killer whales have not only learned how to steal fish from longlines, but have overcome a variety of techniques designed to stop them, such as the use of unbaited lines as decoys. [11] Once, fishermen placed their boats several miles apart, taking turns retrieving small amounts of their catch, in the hope that the whales would not have enough time to move between boats to steal fish as it was being retrieved. A researcher described what happened next:""It worked really well for a while. Then the whales split into two groups. It didn't even take them an hour to figure it out. They were so thrilled when they figured out what was going on, that we were playing games. They were breaching by the boats"". [11]In other anecdotes, researchers describe incidents in which wild killer whales playfully tease humans by repeatedly moving objects that the humans are trying to reach, [12] or suddenly start to toss around a chunk of ice after a human throws a snowball. [13]The killer whale's use of dialects and the passing of other learned behaviours from generation to generation have been described as a form of culture. [14]""The complex and stable vocal and behavioural cultures of sympatric groups of killer whales ( Orcinus orca) appear to have no parallel outside humans and represent an independent evolution of cultural faculties"". [15]The dorsal fin [ change | change source]The dorsal fin of the orca can extend up to six feet above its body. That's taller than most grown men. And because a killer whale swims close to the surface, the dorsal fin can often be seen gliding through the surface of the water. This causes some people to mistake killer whale for sharks. In captivity, dorsal fins often collapse for many reasons, but in the wild, dorsal fin collapse happens in less than one percent of wild orcas. [16]Temperament [ change | change source]Female killer whales are often tamed and can be trained to do tricks for audiences in marine shows, like in Sea World. Sometimes, killer whales have even starred in movies, such as the movie titled Free Willy. Orcas can be dangerous, and have been known to kill their attendants on rare occasions. Some marine parks now require trainers to stay outside the pool when they work with orcas. [17] Unlike wild killer whales, captive killer whales are reported to have made nearly two dozen attacks on humans since the 1970s, some of which have been fatal. [18]Related pages [ change | change source]Whales Odontoceti References [ change | change source]Wikispecies has information on: Orcinus orca. Wikimedia Commons has media related to Orcinus orca.↑ Mead, James G. & Brownell, Robert L. Jr. 2005. Order Cetacea (pp. 723-743). In Wilson, Don E. and Reeder, Dee Ann M. eds. Mammal species of the World: a taxonomic and geographic reference. 3rd ed, Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 2 vols. ISBN 978-0-8018-8221-0. OCLC 62265494.↑ Pitman, Robert; Robertson, Kelly M. & Leduc, Richard G. 2008. Mitochondrial sequence divergence among Antarctic killer whale ecotypes is consistent with multiple species. Biology Letters 4 (4): 426–9. [1]↑ 3.0 3.1 3.2 Baird, Robin W. 2002. Killer Whales of the World. Stillwater, MN. : Voyageur Press. ISBN 0-7603-2654-1.↑ ""Killer Whales: physical characteristics"". Seaworld.org. Retrieved 2009-12-30.↑ Olsen K. 2006. National Wildlife 44 (6) 22–30↑ Stewart D. 2001. National Wildlife 39 (1) 54–59↑ Killer whale. Cetacean Research & Rescue Unit. Retrieved 2010-02-18↑ Spear, Kevin. How smart are killer whales – and can they decide to kill a person? Orlando Sentinel, 2010-03-07. Retrieved 2010-03-07↑ 9.0 9.1 Carwardine, Mark 2001. Killer Whales. London: BBC Worldwide. ISBN 0-7894-8266-5↑ Heimlich, Sara & Boran, James 2001. Killer Whales. Stillwater, MN: Voyageur Press. ISBN 0-89658-545-X↑ 11.0 11.1 Obee, Bruce & Ellis, Graeme 1992. Guardians of the whales: the quest to study whales in the wild. North Vancouver, British Columbia: Whitecap Books. ISBN 1-55110-034-7↑ ""Killer whale games"". Blackfish Sounder 13: 5. 2005. Retrieved 2007-11-04.↑ Pitman, Robert L. Scientist has 'snowball fight' with a Killer Whale. Live Science, February 6, 2009. Retrieved 2010-03-07↑ Marino, Lori; et al. (May 5, 2007). ""Cetaceans have complex brains for complex cognition"". PLo S Biology 5 (e139): e139. doi: 10.1371/journal.pbio.0050139. PMC 1868071. PMID 17503965. Retrieved 2010-03-07.↑ Rendell, Luke, and Hal Whitehead (2001). ""Culture in whales and dolphins"". Behavioral and Brain Sciences 24 (2): 309–324. doi: 10.1017/S0140525X0100396X. PMID 11530544. Retrieved 2010-03-07.↑ Meyers, Cara (May 28, 2014). ""Seaworld's Lies Sink to New Low"". Global Animal. Retrieved January 27, 2016.↑ Killer whale attacks unsuspecting girl↑ Sea World trainer killed by killer whale, CNN, February 25, 2010, Retrieved 2010-09-09Category: Oceanic dolphins "
26343	are you required to have a degree to enroll at an ultrasound program	D2823392	Ultrasound Programs: Requirements and Prerequisites	Ultrasound Programs: Requirements and Prerequisites An Associate's Degree in Ultrasound is the most common route taken by aspiring ultrasound technicians, although bachelor's and master's programs are available. Learn more about the training involved with all programs as well as requirements needed. Show Me Schools View 10 Popular Schools »Essential Information The most prevalent ultrasound programs are associate's and bachelor's degree programs. Master's degree programs are not common. The only prerequisite is a high school diploma or GED. Credit from a bachelor's degree can be transferred to a master's degree. Online programs and courses are available. Master's degree programs allow ultrasound technologists to pursue an area of specialization such as abdominal or obstetric imaging. Associate's Degree in Ultrasound An ultrasound associate's degree program prepares students to provide patient care while performing ultrasound procedures and capturing the best possible images. Students then present the ultrasound data to the treating physician. Upon successfully completing this ultrasound program, students can take the American Registry in Diagnostic Medical Sonography certification examination. Associate's degree ultrasound programs typically contain the following courses: Diagnostic medical ultrasound Ethics, legal issues and patient care in ultrasound professions Cross-sectional anatomy in sonography Abdominal, obstetric and gynecological ultrasound Ultrasound instruments Cardiac and vascular sonography Bachelor's Degree in Ultrasound Technology A bachelor's degree in ultrasound technology program prepares students for a more advanced position in hospital, clinic or private practice ultrasound laboratories. Students enrolled in a bachelor's degree in ultrasound program take more advanced classes and learn additional ultrasound techniques. Students in this type of program are also prepared to take on managerial roles in ultrasound technology. Bachelor's degrees in ultrasound curricula typically contain the following courses: Anatomy and physiology for the ultrasound professional Pathophysiology for ultrasound technology Neurosonography Cross-sectional anatomy for ultrasound Abdominal, vascular, obstetric and gynecological ultrasound Echocardiography Master's Degree in Ultrasound Currently, the University of Missouri Health Systems' School of Health Professions has the only master's degree in diagnostic medical ultrasound technology in the United States. Students may choose to specialize in abdomen, obstetric and gynecological, echocardiography or vascular technology ultrasound. In addition to advanced courses, the master's degree in ultrasound technology program includes research courses. Students beginning a master's degree program in diagnostic medical ultrasound program can expect to take classes such as: Diagnostic medical ultrasound principles Sectional anatomy in ultrasound Cardiac principles in ultrasound Diagnostic medical ultrasound research procedures Pathological imaging Vascular, adult and pediatric cardiac, superficial organ and gynecological and obstetric ultrasound Popular Career Options Upon completing a degree program in ultrasound, students are qualified for the following positions: Ultrasound technology professor Ultrasound instrumentation research and development professional Echocardiography professor Ultrasound technician Ultrasound equipment sales Urgent care sonography technician Employment Outlook and Salary Information Diagnostic medical sonographers earn a median annual salary of $68,970, according to the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics' (BLS, www.bls.gov) report in May 2015. This source also indicates graduates are most likely to find employment in hospitals, doctors' offices, medical labs, outpatient care centers and colleges. Job growth is believed to be favorable but will vary according to the sonographers' specializations and locations. According to the BLS, jobs for diagnostic medical sonographers will grow by 26% between 2014-2024. In summary, with a job growth far exceeding the national average for other careers, interested individuals can complete an associate's, bachelor's or master's degree program in order to enter this field. Next: View Schools
273403	how long will chest cough last with bronchitis	D976463	Acute bronchitis	"From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedianavigation search Acute bronchitis Synonyms Chest cold Figure A shows the location of the lungs and bronchial tubes. Figure B is an enlarged view of a normal bronchial tube. Figure C is an enlarged view of a bronchial tube with bronchitis. Specialty Pulmonology Symptoms Cough with sputum, wheezing, shortness of breath, fever, chest discomfort [1] [2]Duration Up to 6 weeks [3]Causes Typically viral infection [1]Risk factors Tobacco smoke, dust, air pollution [2]Diagnostic method Based on symptoms [4]Differential diagnosis Asthma, pneumonia, bronchiolitis, bronchiectasis, COPD [1]Prevention Avoiding air pollution, handwashing [5]Treatment Rest, paracetamol (acetaminophen), NSAIDs [3] [6]Frequency ~5% one or more episodes a year [7] [8]Acute bronchitis, also known as a chest cold, is short-term inflammation of the bronchi (large and medium-sized airways) of the lungs. [2] [1] The most common symptom is a cough. [1] Other symptoms include coughing up mucus, wheezing, shortness of breath, fever, and chest discomfort. [2] The infection may last from a few to ten days. [2] The cough may persist for several weeks afterward with the total duration of symptoms usually around three weeks. [2] [1] Some have symptoms for up to six weeks. [3]In more than 90% of cases the cause is a viral infection. [1] These viruses may be spread through the air when people cough or by direct contact. [2] Risk factors include exposure to tobacco smoke, dust, and other air pollution. [2] A small number of cases are due to high levels of air pollution or bacteria such as Mycoplasma pneumoniae or Bordetella pertussis. [1] [9] Diagnosis is typically based on a person's signs and symptom. [4] The color of the sputum does not indicate if the infection is viral or bacterial. [1] Determining the underlying organism is typically not needed. [1] Other causes of similar symptoms include asthma, pneumonia, bronchiolitis, bronchiectasis, and COPD. [1] [7] A chest X-ray may be useful to detect pneumonia. [1]Prevention is by not smoking and avoiding other lung irritants. [5] Frequent hand washing may also be protective. [5] Treatment of acute bronchitis typically involves rest, paracetamol (acetaminophen), and NSAIDs to help with the fever. [3] [6] Cough medicine has little support for its use and is not recommended in children less than six years of age. [1] [10] Salbutamol is not effective in children with an acute cough who do not have restricted airways. [11] There is weak evidence that salbutamol may be useful in adults with wheezing due to a restricted airway; however, it may result in nervousness, shakiness or a tremor. [1] [11] Antibiotics should generally not be used. [12] An exception is when acute bronchitis is due to pertussis. [1] Tentative evidence supports honey and pelargonium to help with symptoms. [1]Acute bronchitis is one of the most common diseases. [3] [13] About 5% of adults are affected and about 6% of children have at least one episode a year. [7] [8] It occurs more often in the winter. [7] More than 10 million people in the United States visit a doctor each year for this condition with approximately 70% receiving antibiotics, most of which are not needed. [3] There are efforts to decrease the use of antibiotics in acute bronchitis. [13]Contents [ hide ]1 Signs and symptoms2 Cause3 Diagnosis4 Prevention5 Treatment5.1 Antibiotics5.2 Smoking cessation6 Prognosis7 Epidemiology8 References9 External links Signs and symptoms [ edit]Bronchitis may be indicated by an expectorating cough, shortness of breath ( dyspnea ), and wheezing. On occasion, chest pains, fever, and fatigue or malaise may also occur. In addition, bronchitis caused by Adenoviridae may cause systemic and gastrointestinal symptoms as well. However, the coughs due to bronchitis can continue for up to three weeks or more even after all other symptoms have subsided. [ citation needed]Cause [ edit]Acute bronchitis can be caused by contagious pathogens, most commonly viruses. Typical viruses include respiratory syncytial virus, rhinovirus, influenza, and others. Bacteria are uncommon pathogens but may include Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Chlamydophila pneumoniae, Bordetella pertussis, Streptococcus pneumoniae, and Haemophilus influenzae. [ citation needed]Damage caused by irritation of the airways leads to inflammation and leads to neutrophils infiltrating the lung tissue. Mucosal hypersecretion is promoted by a substance released by neutrophils. Further obstruction to the airways is caused by more goblet cells in the small airways. This is typical of chronic bronchitis. Although infection is not the reason or cause of chronic bronchitis, it is seen to aid in sustaining the bronchitis. Diagnosis [ edit]Mild peri hilar cuffing as seen in viral bronchitis A physical examination will often reveal decreased intensity of breath sounds, wheezing, rhonchi, and prolonged expiration. Most physicians rely on the presence of a persistent dry or wet cough as evidence of bronchitis. [ citation needed]A variety of tests may be performed in patients presenting with cough and shortness of breath: [ citation needed]A chest X-ray is useful to exclude pneumonia which is more common in those with a fever, fast heart rate, fast respiratory rate, or who are old. [7]A sputum sample showing neutrophil granulocytes (inflammatory white blood cells) and culture showing that has pathogenic microorganisms such as Streptococcus species. A blood test would indicate inflammation (as indicated by a raised white blood cell count and elevated C-reactive protein ). Prevention [ edit]An oral whole cell nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae vaccine may protect against the disease, but ""the evidence is mixed"". [14]Treatment [ edit]Most cases are self-limited and resolve themselves in a few weeks. Antibiotics [ edit]Evidence does not support the general use of antibiotics in acute bronchitis. [12] While some evidence suggests antibiotics speed up resolution of the cough by about 12 hours there is a greater risk of gastrointestinal problems and no change in longer term outcomes. [15] Antibiotics use also leads to the promotion of antibiotic-resistant bacteria, which increase morbidity and mortality. [16]Smoking cessation [ edit]Further information: Smoking cessation To help the bronchial tree heal faster and not make bronchitis worse, smokers should quit smoking completely. [ citation needed]Prognosis [ edit]Acute bronchitis usually lasts a few days or weeks. [17] It may accompany or closely follow a cold or the flu, or may occur on its own. Bronchitis usually begins with a dry cough, including waking the sufferer at night. After a few days, it progresses to a wetter or productive cough, which may be accompanied by fever, fatigue, and headache. The fever, fatigue, and malaise may last only a few days, but the wet cough may last up to several weeks. [ citation needed]Should the cough last longer than a month, some physicians may issue a referral to an otorhinolaryngologist (ear, nose and throat doctor) to see if a condition other than bronchitis is causing the irritation. It is possible that having irritated bronchial tubes for as long as a few months may inspire asthmatic conditions in some patients. [ citation needed]In addition, if one starts coughing mucus tinged with blood, one should see a physician. In rare cases, physicians may conduct tests to see whether the cause of the bloody sputum is a serious condition such as tuberculosis or lung cancer. [ citation needed]Epidemiology [ edit]Acute bronchitis is one of the most common diseases. [3] [13] About 5% of adults are affected and about 6% of children have at least one episode a year. [7] [8] It occurs more often in the winter. [7]In infants under one year of age, acute bronchitis was the most common reason for admission to the hospital after an emergency department visit in the US in 2011. [18]References [ edit]^ a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p Albert, RH (1 December 2010). ""Diagnosis and treatment of acute bronchitis"". American Family Physician. 82 (11): 1345–50. PMID 21121518.^ a b c d e f g h ""What Is Bronchitis?"". August 4, 2011. Archived from the original on 2 April 2015. Retrieved 1 April 2015.^ a b c d e f g Tackett, KL; Atkins, A (December 2012). ""Evidence-based acute bronchitis therapy"". Journal of pharmacy practice. 25 (6): 586–90. doi: 10.1177/0897190012460826. PMID 23076965.^ a b ""How Is Bronchitis Diagnosed?"". August 4, 2011. Archived from the original on 2 April 2015. Retrieved 1 April 2015.^ a b c ""How Can Bronchitis Be Prevented?"". August 4, 2011. Archived from the original on 2 April 2015. Retrieved 1 April 2015.^ a b ""How Is Bronchitis Treated?"". August 4, 2011. Archived from the original on 2 April 2015. Retrieved 1 April 2015.^ a b c d e f g Wenzel, RP; Fowler AA, 3rd (16 November 2006). ""Clinical practice. Acute bronchitis"". The New England Journal of Medicine. 355 (20): 2125–30. doi: 10.1056/nejmcp061493. PMID 17108344.^ a b c Fleming, DM; Elliot, AJ (March 2007). ""The management of acute bronchitis in children"". Expert opinion on pharmacotherapy. 8 (4): 415–26. doi: 10.1517/14656566.8.4.415. PMID 17309336.^ ""What Causes Bronchitis?"". August 4, 2011. Archived from the original on 2 April 2015. Retrieved 1 April 2015.^ Smith, SM; Schroeder, K; Fahey, T (24 November 2014). ""Over-the-counter (OTC) medications for acute cough in children and adults in community settings"". The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 11: CD001831. doi: 10.1002/14651858. CD001831.pub5. PMID 25420096.^ a b Becker, Lorne A.; Hom, Jeffrey; Villasis-Keever, Miguel; van der Wouden, Johannes C. (2015-09-03). ""Beta2-agonists for acute cough or a clinical diagnosis of acute bronchitis"". The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (9): CD001726. doi: 10.1002/14651858. CD001726.pub5. ISSN 1469-493X. PMID 26333656.^ a b Smith, SM; Fahey, T; Smucny, J; Becker, LA (19 Jun 2017). ""Antibiotics for acute bronchitis"". The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 6: CD000245. doi: 10.1002/14651858. CD000245.pub4. PMID 28626858.^ a b c Braman, SS (January 2006). ""Chronic cough due to acute bronchitis: ACCP evidence-based clinical practice guidelines"". Chest. 129 (1 Suppl): 95S–103S. doi: 10.1378/chest.129.1_suppl.95S. PMID 16428698.^ Teo, Edward; House, Hugh; Lockhart, Kathleen; Purchuri, Sai Navya; Pushparajah, Jennifer; Cripps, Allan W; van Driel, Mieke L, (2014). ""Haemophilus influenzae oral vaccination for preventing acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease"". The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (9): CD010010. doi: 10.1002/14651858. CD010010.pub2. PMID 10796676.^ Smith, SM; Smucny, J; Fahey, T. ""Antibiotics for acute bronchitis"". JAMA. 312 (24): 2678–9. doi: 10.1001/jama.2014.12839. PMID 25536260.^ Hueston WJ (March 1997). ""Antibiotics: neither cost effective nor 'cough' effective"". The Journal of Family Practice. 44 (3): 261–5. PMID 9071245.^ ""Bronchitis"". Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research. 2007-04-20. Archived from the original on 2008-03-25. Retrieved 2008-05-30.^ Weiss, A. J.; Wier, L. M.; Stocks, C.; Blanchard, J. (June 2014). ""Overview of Emergency Department Visits in the United States, 2011"". HCUP Statistical Brief #174. Rockville, MD: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality. Archived from the original on 2014-08-03. External links [ edit]Classification V · T · DICD - 10: J20 - J21 ICD - 9-CM: 466 Me SH: D001991External resources Medline Plus: 001087 e Medicine: article/297108Wikisource has the text of the 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica article Bronchitis. Acute Bronchitis Family Doctor.org (American Academy of Family Physicians) [ show]v t e Diseases of the respiratory system ( J, 460–519) [ show]v t e Common cold Categories: Inflammations Acute lower respiratory infections Bronchus disorders "
275371	how many billions is the sports industry	D3074207		"U. S. Sports Industry: Nearly a $70 Billion Business Date: 6/9/08LAS VEGAS, NEVADA - June 9, 2008 - ""It's good that the Olympic Games are being held this year. Not only will the games highlight the glory of sports and inspire millions of people to get involved, but they will provide a wonderful showcase for the technological achievements of the sporting goods industry."" That was one of many statements made by Sporting Goods Manufacturers Association (SGMA) President Tom Cove during the annual presentation of SGMA's State of the Industry address. Cove's presentation was made today during a luncheon presentation at the Sands Expo in Las Vegas, Nevada - site of the SGMA Team Sports Show (June 9-11). According to SGMA, the U. S. sporting goods industry is $68.4 billion business (at wholesale) - up 2.9% from 2006. Its growth rate is still greater than the 2.2% rate of growth for the U. S. Gross Domestic Product for non-durable goods. Technology is at the core of product innovation and fitness gear continues to be the number one equipment category. By the end of 2008, the U. S. sports industry is expected to reach $69.6 billion (at wholesale). Last year's sales in the sports industry would have been stronger, but a weakening economy caused sales to taper off during the last six months of last year. Cove noted that SGMA expects the sporting goods industry to grow by 2% in 2008. While Americans are involved in more than 100 athletic, recreational, and exercise pursuits, overall levels of participation in this country would be higher if not for the existence and interest in sedentary attractions. ""A big factor which is affecting levels of sports participation is the ongoing attraction of electronic options which are sedentary in nature such as laptop computers, i Pods, Internet chat rooms, hand-held games, computer games, and cell phones,"" said Cove. ""While these items are dynamic innovations, they do consume large amounts of our life and, as a result, cut into the time that could have been set aside for recreational or athletic pursuits. People who want to get in shape need to make exercise a daily priority - just as the ancient Greeks emphasized the importance of a 'sound mind' and a 'sound body. 'The Year 2007In looking back at 2007, the sports apparel industry expanded by 2.4% to $29.5 billion (at wholesale). Since 2000, sports apparel sales have grown by 35.3%. The overall growth of the category is mainly due to the fact that consumers love these performance fabrics that provide compression, moisture management, and temperature control. By wearing this high-tech clothing, today's athletes are far more cool and comfortable at the end of the athletic experience which enables them to perform at a high level - especially when 'the game is on the line. 'As for athletic footwear, wholesale shipments were up 5.1% to $12.9 billion. Since 2000, athletic footwear sales have grown by 44.2%. The big statistical gainers in sporting goods equipment sales were martial arts (12.1%), tennis (6.5%), and boxing (5.0%). All three categories expected to grow again in 2008. Martial arts sales rose to $314 million, up from $280 million in 2006. It was the fourth straight year that tennis sales rose - this time by 4% to $261 million (at wholesale). Boxing's appeal as a fitness option is supporting that industry. Wholesale sales of exercise equipment to consumers remained steady at $3.5 billion. Sales of exercise equipment to institutions (clubs, schools, hotels, etc.) jumped 2.7%. The overall exercise equipment category remains very large and strong -- $4.7 billion. The wide variety of user-friendly machines available is sustaining the fitness industry. There are a number of isolated issues which are also affecting industry sales such as: New Game in Town - The popularity of mixed martial arts (aka, ultimate fighting) was confirmed when CBS featured it as prime-time programming on Saturday, May 31. Looking the Part - Only one third of all sports apparel and athletic footwear are purchased with the intent that it will be used in an active sport. 'The Orient Express -' More than 80% of the respondents to SGMA's annual State of the Industry survey said they used factories in China. Aging Gracefully - There's a strong trend that's continuing: Older Americans are buying and using fitness equipment. School Spirit - From 1990-2007, the number of boys on high school varsity teams has risen 27% while the number of girls on high school varsity teams has risen 60%. The Alma Mater - Despite a 1% drop in sales, retail sales of sports licensed products remained very strong at $13.7 billion, according to estimates by The Licensing Letter. Sports Participation While participation in nearly every all sport has fallen slightly among casual participants and remained steady for ""frequent"" participants, programs are being implemented to get more people involved on the field of play. These initiatives range from team sports to individual sports to winter sports: Golf - A player-development effort began in 2004 in the golf industry. Baseball and Softball - Batters Up USA is a program focused on re-introducing people of all ages, though specifically young people, to both baseball and slow-pitch softball. Football - The NFL is working to expand the sport of football at all amateur levels. Winter Sports - The Snow Sports Industries Association has launched ""Winter Feels Good,"" which promotes winter sports to help reverse obesity. The Year 2008The SGMA feels that in 2008, the sporting goods industry - like the entire private sector -- will be affected by the weak economy and low consumer confidence. Other factors which are influencing the sports industry include the following: Ladies First - The women's market is biggest in sports apparel as 42% of all spending is for women's items The Senior Set - The existence of publications like Masters Athlete confirms that there is a large number of 'Baby Boomers' who are supporting the sports and fitness industry as active participants. Big Spenders - Nearly one-third of all spending on athletic footwear is by those aged 13-24, who also pay the highest average retail price for sneakers. Fitness Favorites - Free weights are the most common form of fitness equipment found in the home, while people spend more money on treadmills. The Club Scene - Right now, there are 44.1 million Americans who are members of health clubs, which is 21% more than there were in 2000. Games for Girls - More females play basketball than any other team sport, while 90% of all high school volleyball players are girls. Dedicated Dudes - Of the 6.9 million martial arts participants, 69.5% of them (4.8 million) are considered 'frequent' participants (i.e. those who participated 25 days or more). In response to a survey by SGMA, the five hottest sports for sales growth in 2008 will be yoga/Pilates, fitness walking, lacrosse, running, and strength training. As the industry moves through 2008, the three biggest challenges are dealing 'slower consumer spending,' 'availability of skilled labor/labor costs' and 'availability of quality materials/material costs.' Without a doubt, the rising cost of oil will impact energy prices. In all likelihood, those soaring costs will be passed on to the consumer. In Washington, D. C. The SGMA is active on Capitol Hill generating congressional support for two pieces of federal legislation that can impact, in a positive way, the health of millions of Americans: The Personal Health Investment Today (PHIT) Bill, a new piece of legislation in Congress, is geared at encouraging physical activity by easing the financial burden to participate. If passed, this bill would expand pre-tax accounts to allow for payment of expenses related to physical activity and team sports, including equipment. The PHIT Bill can empower Americans to be active, healthy, and fit. The Carol M. White Physical Education Program (PEP) is using federal funds to jumpstart innovative P. E. programs in American schools. To date, PEP has provided nearly $500 million in grants to P. E. programs in schools and community based groups to help them buy more equipment and train more instructors. PEP is teaching children how to live active/healthy lives. Congress allocated $50 million for the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) to help states purchase land for wilderness areas and parks to build recreation facilities such as playing fields and trails. The source of funding for the LWCF is off-shore oil leases. Within the State of the Industry Report 2008, there are individual editorial sections on a number of sports/activities such as baseball, basketball, billiards, bowling, camping, fitness equipment, football, golf, ice hockey, lacrosse, martial arts, soccer, softball, tennis, and volleyball. There are also special sections on athletic footwear, sports apparel, and sports licensed products. SGMA has published its annual report, The State of the Industry 2008, which discusses business and participation trends in detail. "
276566	how many calories does modelo beer have	D2305114	Beer	Food database and calorie counter Source: Member Modelo Especial Beer Nutrition Facts Serving Size: 1 bottle (12oz)Amount Per Serving Calories from Fat 0Calories 145% Daily Values*Total Fat 0g 0 %Saturated Fat 0g 0 %Polyunsaturated Fat 0g Monounsaturated Fat 0g Trans Fat 0g Cholesterol 0mg 0 %Sodium -Total Carbohydrate 4g 1 %Dietary Fiber -Sugars 0g Protein 0g Vitamin A 0% Vitamin C 0%Calcium 0% Iron 0%* Percent Daily Values are based on a 2000 calorie diet. Your daily values may be higher or lower depending on your calorie needs. Is this information inaccurate or incomplete? Click here to edit.7% of RDI* (145 calories)Calorie Breakdown: Carbohydrate (100%) Fat (0%) Protein (0%)* Based on a RDI of 2000 calories What is my Recommended Daily Intake (RDI)? Photos+Submit Photo Nutrition summary: Calories145Fat0g Carbs4g Protein0g There are 145 calories in a 1 bottle serving of Modelo Especial Beer. Calorie breakdown: 0% fat, 100% carbs, 0% protein. Other Types of Beer: Anheuser-Busch Budweiser Beer Anheuser-Busch Budweiser Light Beer Miller Brewing Company High Life Beer Beer Miller Brewing Company Genuine Draft Beer Light Beerview more beer nutritional info Other Types of Alcohol: Table Wine Margarita Vodka Whiskeyview more alcohol nutritional info Food Search Add this item to my food diarydate:meal:name:amount: Save Cancel Other Recently Popular Foods: Patron Citronge Saranac Legacy IPADogfish Head Seaquench Ale Bacardi Oakheart Firestone Walker 805Austin Eastcider Blood Orange Cider Goose Island Winter Ale Everclear Grain Alcohol Franzia Dark Red Blend Deschutes Brewery Fresh Squeezed IPAPlease note that some foods may not be suitable for some people and you are urged to seek the advice of a physician before beginning any weight loss effort or diet regimen. Although the information provided on this site is presented in good faith and believed to be correct, Fat Secret makes no representations or warranties as to its completeness or accuracy and all information, including nutritional values, is used by you at your own risk. All trademarks, copyright and other forms of intellectual property are property of their respective owners.
285960	how many hours does cna need to work to maintain certification	D3452685	CNA License Renewal in Texas	Nursing Assistant Questions and Answers How often do I have to renew my CNA certification in Texas? If you take a look at your Texas nursing assistant certification you will notice that there is no expiration date written on it. To keep your certificate active you need to call the Texas Nurse Aide Registry every two years to verify your personal and employment information. How many hours per year does a CNA in Texas need to work to not lose the certification? Can she have worked ten hours one year and on the second year not worked but just needs to show where she worked the previous year to not lose the nurse assistant certification? You must show proof of paid nursing assistant services in the last twenty-four months since your last renewal in order to keep your Texas CNA certification active. Nurse aides renewing their certification after September 1, 2013, are required to complete 24 hours of in-service education every two years. All approved Nurse Aide Training and Competency Evaluation Programs are eligible to offer in-service education. You may contact the Texas nurse aide registry at 512-438-2050 to verify this information. The facility where you work (or have worked) submits employment information to the Texas nurse aide registry once a year, however, if the facility does not perform this service then you are required to send the information to the registry. You may verify if your certification is still active by accessing the online verification system. You may check the status of your CNA certification here: DADS Regulatory Services Credentialing Sanctions Database Search.
296122	how many species of roaches	D565953	Cockroaches (Roaches)	"Roaches How To Identify Inspect Treat Prevent Cockroaches (Roaches)Cockroach History Cockroach Taxonomy Types of Roaches Common Roach Species Comparison Cockroach Life Cycle Cockroach Anatomy Cockroach Identification Cockroach FAQs Cockroach Facts Cockroach Facts for Kids*Also see our roach control page All About the Different Types of Cockroaches, Cockroach Life Cycle, Cockroach Identification, and Cockroach Facts & More What Are Roaches? The name cockroach derives from the Spanish language cucaracha meaning cockroach. The transition of the word from Spanish to English came from the slang over time from “cuc-a-racha” to “cock-roach”. The scientific name derives from the Latin name for the insect. Doric Greek: βλ?ττα or blátta;Ionic & Attic Greek: βλ?ττη or blátt This Greek and Latin name is how the orders where named Blattodea- the cockroach order There are 4,300 known species of cockroaches worldwide, and more are discovered all the time. Seventy of those species call North America their home. Out of all the species in the world, only around 30 to 35 are considered pests. The total number of roach species almost matches the number of mammal species, which are 5,400. Cockroaches today have related families and species still tied up in identification and yet to be discovered in the dense tropical regions around the world. They are the most successful ancient insect on the planet. These critters will eat anything and can survive absolutely anywhere other than the Polar Regions and above 2,000 meters in elevation. They are known to span and inhabit regions like the tropical rainforests, tropical forests, temperate forests, deserts, grasslands, and salt marshes. The cockroach order Blattodea is amongst some of the most talented and well adapted species of roaches. This family has the qualities of a super insect: some can live without water, can fly, are the fastest insect, are the most ancient, and can survive high levels of radiation and can survive by eating anything including their own vomit and each other. Cockroaches are ancient and highly successful insects. They practice many habits to survive including: Coprophagy: This means they eat their own feces!Emetophagy: This means they eat their own vomit!Cannibalism: This means they eat their own kind Thigmotropic: This means they love tight spaces and secure hiding places Dioecious: This means they have a distinct difference between male and female species. Oviparous: This means to produce eggs that hatch outside the body. Some roaches deposit the eggs and others carry the eggs along with them until they hatch. Specialized terminology for cockroaches: Fat body: This is the structure within a cockroach that contains stored nutrients, uric acid, and endosymbiotic bacteria, each housed in a different cell type. Formulation: The form in which an insecticide is applied: the most common formulations for roaches are sprays, dusts, and baits. Mode of action: Is the mechanism by which an insecticide, or roach killer, affects the insect in this case roaches. Mycetocyte: The cockroach fat body cell type that houses the endosymbiotic bacteria. Ootheca: The structure into which cockroaches deposit their eggs: also called an egg case. Pronotum: This is the shield-like plate covering the dorsum of the first thoracic segment in cockroaches. Cockroach History Where do roaches come from? The cockroach, having been present on the planet amongst the first insects, currently has no proven origin. Scientist know that most roaches have come from the tropical regions all over the world and adapted to colder conditions - having over 300milion years to do so. The roach is suspected to have come onto the scene around 355 million years ago with the earliest roach-like fossil. They call this specimen a roachid, or the blattopteran. The fossil doesn’t exactly mimic todays roach with it being remarkably close to its cousin in evolution, the praying mantis, which does share features in this fossil. The distribution of cockroaches is worldwide. They have evolved to live alongside humans and they do it well. The cockroach, like most insects, gained passports to any country through the aid of man. During the early centuries through trade routes, the Roach species became an invasive species on every continent humans inhabited. They are more prevalent in the tropical regions, but they can survive anywhere humans have established homes and food sources. The Cockroach has been on the planet for approximately 250 to 300 million years. This dates back to as early as the Carboniferous times. Theories have speculated that the ancient ancestor of the cockroach predates the dinosaurs. During this insect order’s time on Earth, it has changed very little, keeping its features primitive or ancient like previous generations. It was said that the cockroach was amongst the first great expansion of the insect species. The roaches appear to have achieved the optimum body form and other key features early in their evolution history. The theory is that the cockroach evolved the feature to fold their wings over their body to allow them the vital protect they needed. The traits gave the roach the ability to hide from predators and to escape various dangers to survive extinction where most insects were not successful. Scientists also state that the development of the ootheca or egg sac carried by the female cockroach gave critical parental care and protection to sustain numerous generations allowing the species to survive countless millennia. Cockroaches have been clearly traced back to ancestral fossils that have remarkably almost the same morphology as current day roaches. Roaches have the innate ability to adapt to any situational condition that arises. Another helpful adaptation is that cockroaches harbor a wide variety of symbionts in their gut as well as fat bodies. Scientific theories make the association that the microbes present have played a large role in the adaptation, evolution, and survival of cockroach species. The hindguts of most cockroaches, apart from one family of five species that have been examined, harbor a wide variety of microbes, including ciliates, amoebae, flagellates, and various prokaryotes. These microbial organisms all are believed to play a major role in digestion and the efficiency of the roach. Why Do We Call Them Cockroaches? The term “ blatta ” is derived from several branches of Greek languages for cockroach. Cockroaches are featured in literature and songs throughout history. The Cockroach is featured in the ""La Cucaracha"" meaning ""The Cockroach"" that is a traditional Spanish folk-corrido or song that became popular in Mexico during the Mexican Revolution. The song is about the concern of a cockroach that has lost one of its six legs and is struggling to walk with the remaining five. Cockroach Taxonomy Phylum Arthropoda - Arthropods Class Insecta - Insects Order Blattodea Families: Cryptocercidae: Most primitive ancient cockroaches Blaberidae: Blaberid cockroaches Blattellidae: Wood cockroaches Blattidae: Blattid cockroaches Polyphagidae: Sand cockroaches Types of Roaches There are many different types of roaches throughout the world, based on the regions they dwell in. Cockroaches can inhabit inside the home, outside the home, or both. If a roach prefers to dwell outside it is called a feral roach. The feral roaches still may end up inside the home but their survival is independent of humans. Next are the peridomestic roaches that can survive inside or outside the home. Then finally, the domestic roaches base their habitats of living inside homes only. These three regions allow you to further understand the cockroach and identify them. In the Order Blattodea (Cockroaches)The most numerous and problematic roach families: Blaberidae Blattellidae Blattidae Polyphagidae Cryptoceridae All roaches are parametabolous This means they have many nymph stages Can range from 5-13 nymphal instars till they reach full maturity The morphology of a roach is primitive This just means the body is unspecialized or has not changed over time Family Blaberidae This family of cockroaches is the largest by size and species. Blaberidae cockroaches in some genera can be very large, like the Blaberus which is extremely large and reaches 80mm or longer. There are also over a dozen genera of Blaberid roaches with 2,000 species. Death’s Head Cockroach ( Blaberus cranifer)Appearance of this roach is dull yellow or pale yellow pronotum with pale or light markings in a square black or dark patch This pattern on the pronotum is referred to a “death patch” and inspires its name, “Death’s Head”The body is dark with brownish colored wings The size of this species varies from 40-60mm Biggest roach of the species is recorded at 80mm This species is the largest cockroach in North America The adults and larvae or young are active throughout the year in tropical and subtropical regions The distribution of this species spans from the southeastern United States down into Key West, and to the Caribbean, and into South America Cuban Cockroach ( Panchlora nivea)Cuban roaches are almost entirely translucent and pale green or pale blue-green Males have a slender tapering abdomen with a yellow colored underside Females are more broad at the abdomen region and darker than the males The size of this species varies from 12 to 20mm The Cuban roach species are noted as minor household pests, and prefer to spend the duration of their lives outdoors The adults and larvae or young are active throughout the year in the gulf coastal regions of North America The distribution of this species spans from Texas east to Florida, and south into central Mexico Madagascar Hissing Cockroach ( Gromphadorhina portentosa)AKA: Hissing cockroach or hisser This is one of the biggest species of cockroach They range in size from 2 to 3 inches as adults The hissing cockroaches are native to the island of Madagascar They prefer to inhabit rotting logs and other leaf matter Commonly kept as a pet in large numbers Family Blattellidae This family is most commonly known as the wood cockroach or wood roach family. This family clings to the subtropical and tropical regions in the world. The Blattellids are known to be small outdoor roaches and wood roaches. German Cockroach ( Blattella germanica)The sizes of the species varies from 13 to 16mm Males are tan or a pale brown with two stripes or dark streaks down the pronotum The female is a darker variation of the male Both male and female German Roaches have wings This species’ distribution is found throughout the United States. They are active year round German Cockroaches typically invade houses, apartments, restaurants, other food preparation facilities, storage facilities in hotels, hospitals, and other institutions This species comes out at night to search for food and water If they are out during the day it indicates a severe infestation and German Roach control may be needed. Western Wood Cockroach ( Paroblatta americana)Males of the western wood roach are fully winged with a shiny pale brown color Females are dark brown and dark reddish brown mix and are wingless Sizes range from 8 to 15 mm These roaches prefer to live outdoors which means they are feral roaches They live in regions like grasslands, woodlands, and many other outdoor habitats There are 12 species of Paroblatta genus in the United States and Canada Male Western Wood Roaches are commonly drawn to spotlights and other lights around the perimeter of structures. To prevent them from enter the home after they are drawn in by the lights by understanding and controlling wood roaches. They are active mostly in the warmer months and spring through fall seasons The distribution of this species of wood cockroach is found in Oregon, California, Nevada, Arizona, and into parts of Baja California Family Blattidae: This family is known as the Blattid cockroaches. This is a diverse family with many genera and hundreds of species. The two genera Periplaneta and Blatta are the most widely distributed, whereas the rest of the genera are more regionally adapted. This family of roaches is known for being rather large and tend to prefer living outdoors. The species is commonly called Palmetto bugs. American Cockroach (Periplaneta americana)AKA: the Palmetto bug Size of this roach species ranges from 27mm to 40mm The distribution range of this species is from southern Canada throughout the United States and into Mexico This species is said to originate from Africa, transported on ships through travel and trade to become the cosmopolitan species they are today This species is active year round and love moist, warm locations Males are a polished red brown color with darker brown wings that are longer than its abdomen, have a pale head region or pronotum with two dark blotches on it The female has short wings that don’t extend beyond her abdomen The adults are somewhat weak fliers American cockroaches look to enter structures through sewage and plumbing systems American cockroaches are well known commercial pests of restaurants, supermarkets, bakeries, warehouse, shipyards, and other food industries Smoky Brown Cockroach (Periplaneta fuliginosa)This roach species is uniformly dark Both sexes of this species have wings that extend beyond the abdomen tip The size of this species ranges from 24mm to 33mm The Smoky Brown Cockroach is better known in history as the old world species and was a common house pest in the southeast. The Smoky Brown Roach is only second in abundance to the German Cockroach When outdoors they prefer to eat bird droppings and a wide variety of plant matter Smoky Brown cockroaches prefer to inhabit garages and outbuildings Large populations of this species can be found in large undisturbed wood piles The distribution range of this cockroach is from the Carolinas to Florida, then west to central Texas, and in isolated populations in the Midwest in heated buildings Oriental cockroach ( Blatta orientalis)AKA: Waterbugs The Oriental Roach species’ distribution range is from southern Canada and throughout the United States This species size ranges from 18 to 30 mm Oriental cockroaches are shiny and black - only the males have some dark reddish brown or blackish brown color and wings They are active year-round Oriental cockroaches prefer to live in a variety of places like basements, cellars, crawl spaces, behind radiators, under floor coverings, in hollow trees, and stumps When in clusters of dense populations, Oriental cockroaches give off a pungent odor Brown-banded cockroach ( Supella longipalpa)This is a small species of cockroach which size ranges from about 10 to 14mm long The brown-banded cockroach has a dark tan to light brown overall body color The key identification characteristic is two light-colored bands across the wings and abdomen The bands can be hidden by the wings The male roach has longer wings that cover the abdomen and is more slender The female roach has shorter wings that do not cover the abdomen completely and is much wider than the male The range of the Brown-banded roach is found all over North America Family Polyphagidae This small family of roaches is commonly referred to as Sand Cockroaches. There are only a few described genera with around 100 to 150 species. The genera of the Arenivaga have evolved a system of absorbing moisture through the environment. Since most of this family is found in dry desert-like areas, this skill comes in handy. Desert Cockroaches (Arenviga spp. )In the polyphagidae family This species ranges from 15 to 24mm in size Males are pale with darker markings on wings Females have a brown or reddish color and are wingless with a distinctly visible body segmentation The sand cockroaches’ distribution, or range, is common to southern and southwest California Desert cockroaches are found in desert dunes, dry scrubby habitats, and other places beneath the ground Some desert roaches like to live in wood rat burrows Females are flightless and are found beneath stones or other objects Males of this species are fully winged and are frequently attracted to lights Because Desert Cockroaches live in dry conditions the roaches will absorb water vapor from the atmosphere through their mouthparts Family Cryptoceridae This is the most primitive or ancient family of cockroaches. This family has one genus and only 10 species or less. They are found in rotten logs in the United States, Korea, China, and Russia. They are reddish brown and both sexes are wingless as adults. The controversial family Nicticolidae This is one of the temporary genera that have an unknown placement for it amongst the roaches. The Nicticola genus does not contain endosymbiotic bacteria like the rest of its cousins. Many of this species has gone unidentified in this family so the current species count of roaches is much higher due to the undecided nature. The vast majority of cockroach species live in tropical regions of the world. These tropical regions are part of the world that has not been adequately assessed to establish the diversity of insect life. Common Roach Species Comparison Through extensive studies and research, the cockroach species have been shown to be extremely closely related to termites. The microbial symbionts in both roaches and termites are actually identical if not for the same purpose. Wood cockroaches are proven to have given rise to the termite family, and are at least the last connection in the lineage between the two forms of cockroach. The termites and wood cockroaches have modified symbionts to digest their wood that they consume. This inspired further research to knowing why. The roaches have obviously been on the planet longer than termite so they must have splintered off at some point countless millennia ago to become this modified roach family. The termite is actually an odd version of the cockroach that is one of the first insects to evolve on the earth!This connection was made by the symbionts that are found in the gut of the two insects. They’re referred to as endomicrobia. The endomicrobia are classified as cytoplasmic symbiont protozoan in the guts of roaches and termites. Along with a host of bacteria and other flagellates that aid in digestion. Termites may look like white ants, but new genetic research confirms they are really a social kind of cockroach. The fact that normal cockroaches are primarily solitary animals and are compared with the termite’s complex society is an extreme thought. Researchers have also added that both species practice coprophagy, or eating feces. This fact could very well have led termites to evolve in the first place. Scientists had long known that cockroaches and termites were related to each other and to praying mantises. Some of the features they share include specialized cases that enclose their eggs, and perforations in the internal parts of their heads. The termites over the years, decades, and millennia have been labeled with the name of the white ant. This term until recent years made sense being that the ants are in the social insect order. They live in colonies underground and have social rankings as well as queens. The major differences are the external anatomies and the choice to consume wood. Though there are some ant species that choose to call wood dwellings their home they do not actually ingest the wood. The ants merely reposition the wood or kick it out for the colony to grow within. Sometimes the ants will suck the moisture and oils out of the wood. Wood isn’t the ants’ primary source or choice of nourishment like the termite. The termite has actually evolved to encase microbes and symbionts in the gut to aid in the digestion of wood. This is also a characteristic of all cockroach families with the exception of one family. In recent studies the push has been made to classify the cockroaches and termites into their own separate order. The research urges that the termites are not social pale ants, but actually social cockroaches. They have moved the termites into the order Blattodea and the original order of Isoptera is now the infraorder under the cockroach order. The termites are actually stated as a cockroach family by entomologist Paul Eggleton from the natural history museum of London. Dr. Eggleton and his colleagues now conclude that the termites are a species of cockroach. The termite species has just evolved to mimic the social classes of the bees, ants, and wasp order. Example of scientific classification: Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Arthropoda Class: Insecta Subclass: Pterygota Infraclass: Neoptera Superorder: Dictyoptera Order: Blattodea Infraorder: Isoptera General Cockroach Life Cycle Image source: vtaide.com The image above is a general life cycle of a cockroach. Once the male and female roach reproduce or copulate the new generation begins brewing. The fertilized female now begins creating an egg capsule. The egg capsule created by the female cockroach is called an ootheca. This egg capsule grows as it fills up with up to sixty or more eggs. The egg swells and bulges out from the abdomen. Each species of roach deals with the ootheca differently. Some carry it until the young hatch, or drop the egg after carrying it for a time period, or finally just drop the ootheca once it is produced. Once the young or nymph cockroach emerge, they then begin a 9-12 month nymph stage as they molt and grow to reach the adult stage. This phase of the life cycle can encompass as many as six nymph stages. The roach species have been known to in some cases in periods of improper diets to undergo over 10 to 15 nymph stages. The type of development the roaches undergo is called a hemimetabolus or paurometabolous metamorphosis. Hemimetabolus or paurometabolous means development by gradual metamorphosis in nymph stages that resemble small adults. After each molt, the cockroaches are white and the exoskeleton is soft and hardens short after a few hours. General Cockroach Anatomy External Anatomy The current cockroach anatomy is split up into three main regions:head,thoraxabdomen The external anatomy is made up of:an exoskeletonantennaewingssix legs. Roaches have two forewings and two hind wings. The wings are called the left and right forewings and hind wings. The forewings are sometimes extended to cover the body of the roach. The six legs are named right foreleg, left foreleg, right mid-leg, left mid-leg, right hind-leg, and left hind-leg. The exoskeleton has a region behind the head that is like a shield called the prothorex or pronotum. The legs are divided up into segments from the body out, coxa, trochanter, femur, tibia, and ending at the tarsus. Internal Anatomy Internally, Cockroaches have a vast array of organs including:brainpharynxoesophagussalivary glandlateral blood vesselsdorsal blood vessel (heart)salivary reservoircropcoxal musclesmetathoracic ganglionnerve centertestismale and female reproductive organsventral nerve cordheartdorsal tergitescercal nerveproventriculusenteric caecaventriculusmalpighian tubulesileumcolonrectumanus Cockroach Identification & Morphology How to identify a cockroach:*See our step-by-step Roach Identification Guide for complete identification information. Count six legs Hard exoskeleton Thin transparent wings that lay and fold on the back Long flat body Two long antennae Reddish brown colored cockroaches are American or German roaches Dark Brown colored cockroaches are smokybrown or brown banded roaches Shiny black colored cockroaches are Oriental roaches1-2 inches in length are the American, smoky brown, and Oriental cockroaches The smallest roach is on average a half of an inch and is the German cockroach German cockroaches also have two black racing stripes or to black parallel lines down the head and onto the wings Brown Banded roaches have tan bands around its abdomen in stripes These key features along with where you found the roach will help confirm the identification process The cockroach has three body segments, six legs, and one pair of antennae. This is the common key morphology of all class Insecta lineages, or orders of insects. The exoskeleton is a hard protective covering and incases the internal organs. The exoskeleton is commonly divided into sclerites or plates. Roaches have unique mouthparts called the labrum, mandible, labium, and maxilla. The differences between sexes is either clear to distinguish, or the species of roach is dimorphic. Dimorphism means that both sexes are exteriorly identical. In the dimorphic roach species both sexes possess wings and other similar features. Though several species of males have wings in the adult stage and the females remain wingless from the transition from nymph to adult. Then, in some cases, the wing lengths of species and body length sizes are different between sexes. Frequently Asked Questions About Cockroaches Do cockroaches bite? The cockroach can in fact bite humans. All cockroaches have mandibles and a nasty hunger that never ends, making the roach always in search of a food source. Though cockroach bites are rare most bites will occur in extreme cases of high populations or lack of food. In some cases, bites could occur while humans are falling asleep with food residue on clothing or on the face or skin which can draw the roaches in. They can feed on human flesh but the roach would much rather prefer the less luxurious dining style of leftover crumbs and scraps. If a bite does occur this can be no joking matter. The bite can be almost unnoticeable but can result in a nasty infection or worse. The typical cockroach lifestyle of crawling through and living in the must filthy locations can allow the roaches to harbor a host of bacteria, parasites, viruses, and other microorganisms. Do cockroaches fly? Yes - cockroaches have wings that they use to fly. The adult roaches, and more commonly the male roaches, have wings to locate females. The wings allow the roach to travel more easily. Though not all roaches have wings and most of the roaches’ life is spent wingless until it is a mature adult. The nymphs are highly skilled jumpers, climbers, and sprinters. So no matter the stage of life the cockroach is an evasive creature. What do cockroach droppings look like? Cockroach droppings, depending on how fresh or not they are, are around one millimeter in diameter or smaller. The feces are also circular or spherical. The round droppings can vary in size depending on the life stage and size of the roach. The colors may vary as well from black, light brown, dark brown or brownish green. The color also depends on the diet of the roach. What attracts cockroaches? Research shows that cockroaches are drawn to one another. They pick up the pheromones given off by nearby roaches by the specialize antennae. The roach has over a hundred segments on each antenna that allow it to scene the presence of other roaches. Cockroaches do travel in packs once together. They unknowingly travel as a pack and prefer to be in groups. This factor allows them to protect one another and create new generations. There are many factors that draw in and attract a host of different roach species. The feral roaches or wood roaches are oddly attracted to spotlights and can be uncontrollably attracted to homes. As a result the feral roaches are sometimes caught in the home. Then in some cases the semi-domestic and domestic roaches are drawn to the primary source of clutter and food. The peridomestic and domestic roaches need to feed on the food humans eat, the waste, and trash of this food. What do cockroaches do? The cockroach loves to forage and eat at all hours. They also love to wonder around discovering new shelters, foods, and water sources. The number one concern of the cockroach is eating and finding water. The cockroaches’ kryptonite, so to speak, is its unavoidable urge to eat. They also love to be touched on all sides so they will hide in any crack and crevice they can fit in. The roaches also like to do most of their foraging in the night hours. They spend over 75 percent of the day resting or hiding. Do cockroaches and asthma have a correlation? Yes - cockroaches do cause asthma. The immune system works its best to try to prevent any foreign substance from entering into the body like bacteria and viruses. This response is to save us from a potentially dangerous illness or disease. The allergies come from the immune system overreacting once we inhale, swallow, or touch any foreign substances. These substances are called allergens. This response triggers the cells and body to attempt blocking these foreign particles resulting in the person having allergies. The cockroach allergen is from the feces, saliva, and bodies of the roaches themselves in the vicinity of the allergy prone person. Over 80 to 90% of the urban homes have cockroaches, and from 900 to 300,000 insects. This overwhelming presence as a result is creating an increased chance of allergies becoming an issue and new ones becoming created. Source: AAFA or the Asthma and Allergy Foundation of America Do cockroaches carry disease? During the average cockroach adventure, they will find many dirty and filthy locations. This lifestyle makes the roach very dangerous. The cockroach can pick up or be introduced to a host of microbes such as bacteria and viruses. One of the cockroach diseases is called cockroach gastroenteritis. This is a bacterial infection the bacteria causes diarrhea and is a medicinal illness categorized by inflammation. Do cockroaches come out at night? Cockroaches are nocturnal in small populations. They prefer to hide their presence so to make scavenging missions safer. In larger populations the roaches can be seen during the day. This is usually one of the key signs of a high population, along with a musk or odor. How far can cockroaches jump? In recent research it has been recorded that the cockroach can jump over 48 times its body length! In measuring terms this is over 35 centimeters. This skill allows this roaches to jump all over the home at night unnoticed. What is the average cockroach lifespan? Cockroaches can live anywhere from six to 24 months depending on the area they inhabit. This fact can be arguable in domestic pet roaches that are in a controlled, safe environment and have constant nourishment resources. In fact, many people all over the world buy cockroaches and raise them as pets! This domestication of the species throws off the expected life span. The difference between a wild roaches’ life span and a domesticated roaches’ life span are very different but typically they both live at the longest two years or less. Do cockroaches like beer? Roaches do love beer. Why do you ask? Well they are drawn to the aroma of certain beer hops and brewing styles, along with the sugar in beer which is a natural give away. First you would want to take a jam jar or deep bowl with a rounded inside lip. Coat the inner lip with Vaseline. This is so the roaches won't be able to escape. The next step is to then put a slice of beer-soaked bread at the bottom. The cockroaches will be attracted by the smell of beer, but the Vaseline-coated lip will make it impossible for them to escape. You can then dispose of them however you see fit. Could cockroaches survive an atomic bomb? Cockroaches actually couldn’t survive the initial blast or explosion like any other organism. The cockroach is only able to withstand higher levels of radiation. The roach is recorded to be over 15 times more resistant to radiation than humans. Where are cockroaches commonly found? Roaches love dark, warm, dirty, and moist locations. They will thrive in these conditions and high populations congregate in these areas with these characteristics. This means that roaches are typically found in places like sewers, dirty homes, and abandon buildings. All of these places are dark, dirty, and full of clutter. Roaches also like to eat other animal feces so they can be drawn to all sources of pets and animals. What do you call cockroaches that live outside or outdoors? Outdoor roaches are called feral cockroaches. Feral roaches do not like being indoors, and often are by mistake. They have adapted to be outside so hints the term feral or wild. The wood roach species is a feral roach and has adapted to feed on the organic matter and wood to survive outdoors. What are the natural predators of cockroaches? There are a host of amphibians and reptiles that feed on the cockroach species. Small reptiles like geckos, lizards, iguanas, and young snakes. Then amphibians like frogs and toads. There are also a host of insects and arachnids. There are beetles, wasps, and most spiders hunt roaches. Roaches are also attacked by funguses that spread when a roache makes contact with one another. Cockroach Facts Cockroaches today are remarkably identical in size, shape, and color. One of the oldest amber sealed roaches’ dates back to over 40 million years ago stuck inside the resin since the tertiary period/era. The world's smallest cockroach is only 3mm long and lives in ant colonies. The heaviest cockroach in the world is the huge Australian Rhinoceros Cockroach at 80mm in length and weighing in at one pound. The cockroach with the world’s largest wingspan, of up to 185mm is the Megaloblatta blaberoides. Cockroaches have over 150 articulated segments in its antennae. Cockroaches are attracted to the presence of other cockroaches. They naturally migrate with one another, and collectively decide to do things together. Cockroaches are the lab test specimens for all insecticides; scientists say if it can kill a roach, it can kill anything. Cockroaches are omnivores like humans and have evolved alongside us to survive in our environment. The American Cockroach actually originates from tropical parts of Africa. Cockroaches are extremely fast at reacting to the wind created by any external force. They can react within 50 milliseconds. This is due to the super quick connection between its thoracic ganglia, which are like a secondary brain, to react and position its body out of danger. The cockroach can run up to 50 times its body length on one second, which is equal to a human running 30km in on second. The cockroach can maintain peak velocity while clearing objects in its way. The cockroach has inspired today’s engineers to copy its body style for robots. The cockroach, in the science world, is a celebrity because of its sporty design and qualities that have made it the preferred test subject. Roaches can handle 15x more radiation and microwaves than humans. When food is scarce roaches will eat anything. They will eat feces and other roaches to survive. Cockroaches can lose their head and continue to live for two weeks. Cockroach Facts for Kids Cockroaches are also called roaches Cockroaches have 3 pairs of legs. A pair means two legs, so roaches have a total of 6 legs!Roaches are lazy over 75% of the day. That is around 18 hours a day of being lazy!The cockroach is an animal. The cockroach families have been on the planet for over 300 million years!Cockroaches do not have bones! So the make up for it by having a hard exoskeleton or harden skin to protect then and hold them together. Roaches can run up to 3 miles per hour. There are over 5,000 species of cockroaches in the world. The cockroach has around 18 knees!Cockroaches can live for over a month without food, but only a week without water. When it is cold outside roaches like to cuddle and snuggle with one another. Cockroaches can hide in any crack as thin as a dime!Best ways to make your home roach proof: Remove all the things they want such as food, water, and clutter. Store all food in storage containers, protecting all organic matter. Thoroughly clean the garbage area removing all organic matter. Remove all access to running water. Roaches seek out water when they first enter the home. Seal all potential entry ways, because roaches love to explore Top three cockroaches that are considered pests in North America German cockroach American cockroach Oriental cockroach Works Cited“Amazing Roach Facts.” Discovery Kids. N.p., n.d. Web. 21 Nov. 2013. Eiseman, Charley, Noah Charney, and John Carlson. Tracks & Sign of Insects & Other Invertebrates: Guide to North American Species. Mechanicsburg, PA: Stackpole, 2010. Print. Evans, Arthur V. National Wildlife Federation Field Guide to Insects and Spiders & Related Species of North America. New York: Sterling Pub., 2007. Print.“Integrative and Comparative Biology.” Cockroaches: Ecology, Behavior, and Natural History. William J. Bell, Louis M. Roth, and Christine A. Nalepa. Oxford Journals and The Society for Integrative and Comparative Biology, 19 July 2008. Web. 21 Nov. 2013. Resh, Vincent H., and Ring T. Cardé. Encyclopedia of Insects. Amsterdam: Academic, 2003. Print. "
301161	how many years of college to be a veterinarian	D459758	How many years does it take to be a vet?	Pets Other - Pets How many years does it take to be a vet? I wanna know because that is what I want to be when I grow up Follow 7 answers Answers Relevance Rating Newest Oldest Best Answer: On average it takes 8 years. It all really depends on how dedicated you are. The actual Veterinary Medicine program is a 4 year program, but you have to have your Bachelor degree in either Biology or Chemistry before you can be accepted to the vet med program. The Bachelor's degree is where it all depends. It depends on how many classes you take each semester, whether you take summer classes, whether you have to retake classes, whether you have to take zero level classes, etc. Some people get their Bachelor's degree in 3 years and some in 5-6 years. Good luck to you and I know you will enjoy it! !Source (s): My mom is a Veterinarian, I work in a vet clinic and I'm going to school to be a vet tech Vet_Techie_Girl · 1 decade ago3 0 1 comment7 years PBJS · 1 decade ago0 1 Comment This Site Might Help You. RE: how many years does it take to be a vet? I wanna know because that is what I want to be when I grow up Source (s):years vet: https://bitly.im/6df HB? · 3 years ago0 0 Comment It depends. It normally takes about 7-8 years, four in regular college and four in a graduate vet school. Good luck in becoming one!Bored. · 1 decade ago1 0 Comment It takes 8 years. 4 of reg. school and 4 of vet school. Source (s):http://www.talktothevet.com/faqvetcareer... Lori R · 1 decade ago1 0 Comment Veterinarian How Many Years Source (s):https://shorte.im/a8LRb? · 2 years ago0 0 Comment Veterinary college is 4 years. It will take you 6-8 depending on your undergraduate studies. It will be taking me 7 total. ETA: You may not have to have a bachelor's degree to get into veterinary college. I didn't. Perhaps it depends on where you will be attending. I obtained my bachelor's degree after I had completed my first year of veterinary college with satisfactory grades. You should contact the veterinary college (s) you wish to apply to and get the exact prerequisites from them so you'll be able to plan your undergraduate studies accordingly. Edited again: I tried to reply to your e-mail but got a message saying your e-mail address hasn't been confirmed. If you get that fixed, e-mail me again & I'll try again to reply. :-)ponydoc2000 · 1 decade ago0 1 Comment It takes bout' 4 years for vet skool. : D have fun if you go!Bleeding Love · 1 decade ago0 2 Comment Maybe you would like to learn more about one of these? Want to build a free website? Want to buy a domain name? Look For an Accident Attorney Find Email Marketing Software
306973	how much do professional golf caddies make	D1358407	What Do Pro Caddies Earn?	"Related Articles1The Job Requirements of a Lobster Fisherman2Outline to Become a Lawyer3The Hourly Pay Scale for a Healthcare Receptionist4How to Work for the Department of Human Services In rain or shine, they lug heavy gear across acres of land. Like a butler, the caddie stands in the shadow of greatness, ready to respond, no matter the challenge. A caddie is responsible for golf clubs, weather readings and pep talks. This physically strenuous career has the potential to be lucrative when a caddie is paired with a PGA golfer. Caddies holding these coveted jobs have earned respect and saved the backs of professional and amateur golfers across the country. Salary Caddies who work for PGA golfers average six figures a year, which is substantially more than the caddies stationed at golf courses across the country. A survey by Salary Expert shows that, on average, caddie masters earn less than $40,000 a year except for those in San Francisco, Manhattan and Los Angeles. Forbes sports writer Matt Woolsey explains that PGA caddies earn an average of $1,000 each week. The better the player performs the bigger cut for the caddie; Tiger Woods' caddie Steve Williams earned over a million dollars in 2006. Perks Former president of the Tour Caddies Association, Michael Carrick, points out that anywhere from five to ten percent of a player’s winnings at each tournament are paid out to his caddie. When a player finishes in first place, the caddie receives 10 percent of the purse. The perks of the job include travel and extensive seasonal breaks. Sometimes luxurious gifts can be a bonus; after a bet about a palm tree on a course, Bubba Watson purchased a diamond ring for caddie Paul Tesori’s wife. Prowess According to ESPN senior golf writer Bob Harig, caddies who are shy of making it as professional golfers are favorable because they know the sport. Those caddies can offer practical advice to the golfers they assist, and do more than just hold a bag, they essentially coach and strategize with the player. From checking the slope of a hill to the direction of the wind, a caddie has to constantly assess the environment’s impact on the game. Career Outlook A golfer’s performance is the main determiner of a caddie’s pay and job security. The field has high turnover, with players often blaming their caddies for missed shots. Future earnings are never guaranteed; when a player is injured he will not compete, which means no work for the caddie. Those who choose to moonlight have been fired for it. On the upside, though, there is a growth in the industry for females. As more women enter golf, the opportunity for females to enter the caddie world increases. The increased popularity of the LPGA means a bright future for female caddies. References (5)About the Author Kate Stepanski has been a professional writer since 2006. Her writing has appeared in media outlets like ""The Oakland Tribune,"" “Mun2,"" “Not For Tourists,"" “Burner Magazine” and “San Francisco Bay Guardian."" She holds a Master of Fine Arts in creative writing from San Francisco State University. Photo Credits Medioimages/Photodisc/Photodisc/Getty Images Cite this Article "
319955	how much for toilet installation	D902251	How Much Does A New Toilet Cost?	How Much Does A New Toilet Cost? Most homeowners spend between $255 to $399 nationally. Get free estimates from local contractors who can Install a Toilet . Get Started!Believe it or not, all toilets were not created equal. Your porcelain thrones can vary substantially in height, style, color and even size, depending on your interior decor. Having a toilet installed may be a part of outfitting a newly constructed home, or it might be an integral part of your bathroom remodel. Either way, having a clear idea of the expenses associated with toilet installation may help with both the planning and budgeting of your project. If you need help setting a budget for your project, try our cost estimator to help you set a realistic budget for your toilet installation project. As always, Improve Net can help you connect with local plumber in your area. National Install a Toilet Costs See Local Costs We are still gathering data for this location. Try changing location above or choose another project .$355Average Cost$65Min imum Cost$830Max imum Cost Average Range:$255 to $399Next Step Find contractors near you to estimate your project Get Free, Detailed Estimates Now!How do we get this data? This info is based on 894 cost profiles, as reported by Improve Net members. Table of Contents Toilet Installation Cost New Toilet Costs Cost To Replace A Toilet Installing A Toilet Cost Factors Popular Toilet Brands & Pricing Installing A New Toilet Toilet Drain Pipe Installation Price Cost To Move Existing Toilet Drain Pipe Removing Toilet Cost Hiring The Right Plumber Find A Plumber Near You Toilet Installation Cost Installing a toilet can improve many things within your bathroom and home. A new toilet can make you happier, can improve your finances when it comes to water use, and can improve the planet. A standard toilet installation should take between one and two hours. The average cost to install a toilet is $355, with most homeowners spending an average of $255 to $399. Prices will vary from state to state, so use our cost estimator to see exact costs in your area. New Toilet Costs The cost of your new toilet will depend on the type of toilet you choose. There are two common toilet types: standard round toilet bowl or an elongated bowl. A standard toilet in an ordinary color like white or cream will generally cost less than $200, but there are plenty of upgrades you can choose that will make the total price much higher. Heated seats are a nice splurge, and there’s also the option to purchase a more energy-efficient toilet that uses less water with each flush. In smaller apartments or any bathroom where space is an issue, there is even an option to have the tank in the wall. While this looks sleek and contemporary, it will raise the installation price by hundreds of dollars. Round Toilet Bowls Costs anywhere from $100 - $300Smaller size, perfect for smaller bathrooms Better for children Less expensive Max out at 28”Elongated Toilet Bowls Costs anywhere from $300 - $1,000Bigger size takes up more space More powerful flush Most comfortable to sit on More expensive Cost To Replace A Toilet If you’re planning on replacing an old toilet, there are some factors to budget for before you start. Remember that a plumber will charge extra for carrying the old toilet out (especially if it’s on the second story of your home), disposing the old toilet, connecting current plumbing to new toilet, repairing current pipes if needed and of course, the installation of the new toilet. The average cost to hire a plumber is $278, with most homeowners spending between $187 and $293. Installing A Toilet Cost Factors There are some factors that will increase the price of your installation that you should keep in mind. The biggest cost factor will be the size of the toilet you plan to install. The size of your toilet will affect the placement of the toilet and how well it will match with your existing plumbing. If any of your existing plumbing needs to be repaired or modified to fit this new toilet, expect the cost to go up dramatically. Your drain line will be the main pipe that needs to be matched, if yours needs repairs or modification, the average cost to repair a drain line $559. Popular Toilet Brands & Pricing The type of toilet you choose is the biggest cost factor for your installation. If you choose to go with a basic round-bowl toilet, you will save some money, but also jeopardize your comfort. If you opt to go with an elongated toilet, you will be spending more, but also be more comfortable while using it. Brand Price American Standard$445Kohler$700TOTO USA$731TOTO USA$1,122Kohler$3,800Installing A New Toilet Most toilet installations take anywhere from one to two hours, assuming all goes smoothly. Here is what to expect from your toilet installation: Turning off the water Draining the existing toilet Disconnecting all pipes and lines Toilet removal Replacing wax seal Flange inspection Connecting new toilet Not every toilet installation will go according to plan, so be prepared for both your budget and time to fluctuate. These are some common toilet installation problems: Unexpected leaks Cracked flange, making your toilet wobbly Improper wax ring seal Poor caulking causing leaks Failure to replace leaky flush valve Toilet Drain Pipe Installation Price When starting from scratch in a new home, the first step of installing a toilet will be installing the drain pipe. Even the most enthusiastic DIYer won't be able to tackle this alone, so it’s best to hire a professional plumber for the job. The task requires a number of specialized tools, including a brazing kit, tubing cutter and the PVC pipe itself. The costs of the hardware and the materials are minimal, but even experienced plumbers can take up to five or six hours to complete the entire job. Expect to pay somewhere in the range of $429 to $482 for the installation of a new toilet drain pipe in the bathroom. Cost To Move Existing Toilet Drain Pipe In some bigger remodels or renovations, the layout of the entire bathroom can change. Rather than having the toilet in one corner, it might be on the opposite side of the room entirely. The problem with doing a big move is the fact that the toilet drain pipe has to be relocated entirely. While it might seem like this should be a relatively simple process, it can take even longer than starting over from scratch. The old pipe needs to be closed, and a brand new opening has to be made in the flooring for a new toilet to connect to. This job can take almost a full day. Expect to pay approximately $500 for the materials and labor involved with moving the existing toilet drain pipe to a new location. Also, if you need to have work done on your flooring for a new opening, the average price to repair flooring is $741. Removing Toilet Cost When installing a new toilet in an existing bathroom, one big project that homeowners should not forget about is removing the existing toilet. In some cases, the company that delivers a new toilet can remove the old one right from the home, which is a great service to take advantage of if it’s available. Keep in mind that the removal is not as simple as taking the tank and seat to a landfill. Parts of the wall and floor may need to be cut to remove pipes. If this is the case, costs to repair tile and grout aren’t expensive and can be done by a local contractor. The existing and very heavy toilet will need to be broken apart or safely hauled away. If a homeowner pays for this removal service, it will generally cost roughly $105 to remove a toilet. Hiring The Right Plumber Whether outfitting a brand new home or upgrading an older apartment, installing a new toilet is a common project. Hiring a licensed plumber is standard when dealing with water sources, and it’s always best to go with someone that has insurance as well as a great reputation. Having multiple estimates to compare costs can help homeowners set a budget for this project, as well as any other bathroom upgrades you might have in mind. Find A Local Plumber There is a lot to consider when finding the right budget, the right toilet and most importantly, the right plumber. While some homeowners have the experience and know how to install a toilet by themselves, many need help. If you need help installing your new toilet, be sure to connect with a local plumber and find competitive estimates. Get free estimates from local bathroom contractors Get Quotes Last updated on Aug 1, 2017Related Project Costs Bathroom Fan Installation Costs Bathroom Fan Repair Costs Bathroom Addition & Remodeling Costs Bathtub Installation Costs Bathtub Or Shower Liner Installation Costs Cabinet Installation Costs How Much Does Cabinet Refacing Cost? Cabinet Refinishing Costs Cost Guides Bathroom Remodel Cost Estimator • Plumbing Costs All Cost Guides →Top Articles on Bathroom How To Fix A Clogged Toilet Plumbing Bathroom Projects That Will Increase Your Home's Value Bathroom A Guide To Home Bathroom Safety For The Family Bathroom
335329	how old is jeremy newberry	D3040045	Who is Jeremy Newberry? Biography, gossip, facts?	"Jeremy Newberry FAQs: Facts, Rumors, Birthdate, Net Worth, Sexual Orientation and much more!Drag and drop boxes to rearrange!Advertisement Who is Jeremy Newberry? Biography, gossip, facts? Advertisement Jeremy David Newberry (born on March 23 1976 in Antioch California) is a former Center in the National Football League . He was drafted by the San Francisco 49ers in the second round of the 1998 NFL Draft. He played college football at California. Newberry has also played for the Oakland Raiders and San Diego Chargers. When is Jeremy Newberry's birthday? Jeremy Newberry was born on the 23rd of March 1976, which was a Tuesday. Jeremy Newberry will be turning 42 in only 15 days from today. How old is Jeremy Newberry? Jeremy Newberry is 41 years old. To be more precise (and nerdy), the current age as of right now is 14977 days or (even more geeky) 359448 hours. That's a lot of hours!Are there any books, DVDs or other memorabilia of Jeremy Newberry? Is there a Jeremy Newberry action figure? We would think so. You can find a collection of items related to Jeremy Newberry right here. What is Jeremy Newberry's zodiac sign and horoscope? Jeremy Newberry's zodiac sign is Aries. ♈ The ruling planet of Aries is Mars. Therefore, lucky days are Tuesdays and lucky numbers are: 9, 18, 27, 36, 45, 54, 63 and 72. Scarlet and Red are Jeremy Newberry's lucky colors. Typical positive character traits of Aries include: Spontaneity, Brazenness, Action-orientation and Openness. Negative character traits could be: Impatience, Impetuousness, Foolhardiness, Selfishness and Jealousy. Is Jeremy Newberry gay or straight? Many people enjoy sharing rumors about the sexuality and sexual orientation of celebrities. We don't know for a fact whether Jeremy Newberry is gay, bisexual or straight. However, feel free to tell us what you think! Vote by clicking below. Gay Straight Bi 50% of all voters think that Jeremy Newberry is gay (homosexual), 50% voted for straight (heterosexual), and 0% like to think that Jeremy Newberry is actually bisexual. Advertisement Is Jeremy Newberry still alive? Are there any death rumors? Yes, as far as we know, Jeremy Newberry is still alive. We don't have any current information about Jeremy Newberry's health. However, being younger than 50, we hope that everything is ok. Where was Jeremy Newberry born? Jeremy Newberry was born in Antioch California. Is Jeremy Newberry hot or not? Well, that is up to you to decide! Click the ""HOT""-Button if you think that Jeremy Newberry is hot, or click ""NOT"" if you don't think so. 50% of all voters think that Jeremy Newberry is hot, 50% voted for ""Not Hot"". Which team (s) did Jeremy Newberry play for? Jeremy Newberry has played for multiple teams, the most important are: Atlanta Falcons, Oakland Raiders, San Diego Chargers and San Francisco 49ers. Which position does Jeremy Newberry play? Jeremy Newberry plays as a Center. Does Jeremy Newberry do drugs? Does Jeremy Newberry smoke cigarettes or weed? It is no secret that many celebrities have been caught with illegal drugs in the past. Some even openly admit their drug usuage. Do you think that Jeremy Newberry does smoke cigarettes, weed or marijuhana? Or does Jeremy Newberry do steroids, coke or even stronger drugs such as heroin? Tell us your opinion below. 0% of the voters think that Jeremy Newberry does do drugs regularly, 0% assume that Jeremy Newberry does take drugs recreationally and 100% are convinced that Jeremy Newberry has never tried drugs before. When did Jeremy Newberry retire? When did Jeremy Newberry end the active career? Jeremy Newberry retired in 2008, which is more than 10 years ago. When did Jeremy Newberry's career start? How long ago was that? Jeremy Newberry's career started in 1998. That is more than 20 years ago. Who are similar football players to Jeremy Newberry? Jan Barrett, Mike Mikulak, John Rokisky, Byron Hardmon and Dominic Tomasi are football players that are similar to Jeremy Newberry. Click on their names to check out their FAQs. What is Jeremy Newberry doing now? Supposedly, 2018 has been a busy year for Jeremy Newberry. However, we do not have any detailed information on what Jeremy Newberry is doing these days. Maybe you know more. Feel free to add the latest news, gossip, official contact information such as mangement phone number, cell phone number or email address, and your questions below. Are there any photos of Jeremy Newberry's hairstyle or shirtless? There might be. But unfortunately we currently cannot access them from our system. We are working hard to fill that gap though, check back in tomorrow!What is Jeremy Newberry's net worth in 2018? How much does Jeremy Newberry earn? According to various sources, Jeremy Newberry's net worth has grown significantly in 2018. However, the numbers vary depending on the source. If you have current knowledge about Jeremy Newberry's net worth, please feel free to share the information below. $ 1000000Submit Jeremy Newberry's net worth is estimated to be in the range of approximately $4718847 in 2018, according to the users of vipfaq. The estimated net worth includes stocks, properties, and luxury goods such as yachts and private airplanes. "
378921	how to send books back to chegg	D3025701	Customer Service & Help Center	How do I return my books? Returning your book to Chegg is super easy!Don't stress. Getting your rental textbooks back to Chegg is the easiest thing you'll do all term. Grab the books that are due Get your prepaid UPS return label Pack 'em up in any box—you don't have to use your orange Chegg box Slap that return label on the box Drop it off at your nearest UPS store on or before your due date! Using UPS lets you return your books to us for free. You'll get a prepaid return label when you ship your books back via UPS. If you can't return your books using UPS, you'll be responsible for any shipping fees back to Chegg. Have a few things to send us? If you have multiple orders—or some books you're selling to Chegg—and want to send everything together, go for it! Remember to create a quote on Chegg.com first. Place one of the labels on the box, and pack everything in the same box. All done with your e Textbook? You don't need to do anything to return your e Textbook. It automatically expires on the date shown on your My Orders page. Skip is a Student Advocate and the author of this help page. Help him improve this article by leaving feedback. Was this article helpful? Yes No Still have questions? Call Chat
391388	if cows are bovine what are sheep	D2964576	If Dog's are Canine and Cow's are Bovine, then what are sheep?	Science & Mathematics Zoology If Dog's are Canine and Cow's are Bovine, then what are sheep? How many other 'ine's' can you name?5 following 20 answers Answers Relevance Rating Newest Oldest Best Answer: Sheep are ovine. Here are the list of animals I know: anserine - geese aquiline - eagle assinine - donkey bovine - cattle cancrine - crab canine - dog cervine - deer corvine - crow equine - horse elapine - snake elaphine - deer feline - cat hircine - goat leonine - lion leporine - rabbit, hare lupine - wolf murine - rodent pavonine - peacock piscine - fish porcine - pig rusine - deer serpentine - snake ursine - bear vulpine - fox Anonymous · 1 decade ago11 0 Comment Definitely ovine, but what's a sheep tied to a lamp post in Wales called? A leisure centre! Oops, I forgot to add the list of 'ines I have anserine - geese aquiline - eagle assinine - ***, donkey bovine - cattle cancrine - crab canine - dog cervine - deer corvine - crow equine - horse elapine - snake elaphine - deer falconine - falcon feline - cat hircine - goat leonine - lion leporine - rabbit, hare lupine - wolf murine - rodent pavonine - peacock piscine - fish porcine - pig rusine - deer serpentine - snake ursine - bear vulpine - fox Edit: Well I never, it removed the word 'a s s' above and inserted stars, I guess you can't say 'a s s' on yahoo! How American!g4oxygene · 1 decade ago9 0 Comment Scientific Name For Sheep Source (s):https://shrink.im/a9P2dlabonville · 2 years ago0 0 Comment This Site Might Help You. RE: If Dog's are Canine and Cow's are Bovine, then what are sheep? How many other 'ine's' can you name? Source (s):dog 39 canine 39 bovine sheep: https://biturl.im/qmt91Kaitlin · 3 years ago0 0 Comment Pertaining To Sheep Source (s):https://shrinks.im/a83d4bigsby · 1 year ago0 0 Comment Sheeps are OVINE: http://www.google.co.uk/search?sourceid=navclient&hl=en-GB&ie=UTF-8&rlz=1T4DKUK_en-GBGB205GB205&q=Dog%27s+Canine%2c+Cow%27s+Bovine%2c+what+are+sheep%3f Regards, Bravo.bravo81672 · 1 decade ago2 0 Comment Definitely ovine as it comes from the Latin name for a sheep which is Ovis. There are some funny ones in the other lists that people have given. Cats are definitely feline from the Latin Felis and the names come from the name of the animal not the family. Ovine sheep are in the family Bovidae. Anonymous · 1 decade ago0 0 Comment Ovine. Blonde 'Marmite' comedians are Timvine.tongue in cheek · 1 decade ago4 1 Comment Ovinedorothy · 1 decade ago0 0 Comment Grass eating creatures that are the size of a big dog and have a very woolly coat and people go ooooh and aaaah when their lambs are born.racey-pacey · 1 decade ago0 0 Comment1 2 3 next Perhaps you would like to learn more about one of these? Need a Home Security Safe? Want to buy a domain name? Psoriatic arthritis symptoms? Need a DUI Attorney?
399795	is a diamond a compound	D1373841	Diamond - Compound or element?	Science & Mathematics Chemistry Diamond - Compound or element? Diamonds are made from only one element, carbon. As there is no other element involved would it classify as an element or a compound? Follow 7 answers Answers Relevance Rating Newest Oldest Best Answer: Diamond is an element it is an isomer of carbon graphit is also another isomer it is matter of arrangment of atoms in the space ALI NADER · 1 decade ago0 0 Comment Is Diamond A Compound Source (s):https://shrinke.im/a77afkilgour · 1 year ago0 0 Comment Diamonds are carbon atoms, and carbon atoms are elements. So diamonds are not really compounds they are a form of the element carbon.paducah_billy · 1 decade ago1 0 Comment Diamond is the allotrope of carbon where the carbon atoms are arranged in an isometric-hexoctahedral crystal lattice. Please note that a chemical element, or element, is a type of atom that is distinguished by its atomic number; that is, by the number of protons in its nucleus. whereas a chemical compound is a substance consisting of two or more different elements chemically bonded together in a fixed proportion by mass. whereasjack91303 · 1 decade ago0 0 Comment It's a structural lattice. It's arranged in what is called a crystal lattice, this gives it its strength. Hope this helps Matteh · 1 decade ago1 0 Commentelement..only one component........ examples a. water - compound b. ammonia - compound c. oxygen - element d. sulfur - element e. carbon dioxide - compound f. copper (II) sulfate - compound g. ferrous oxide - compound Mon Mon · 1 decade ago0 1 Comment Diamond is one of the 8 allotropes of carbon. http://www.answers.com/topic/allotropes-... Dad's found yer scoo'er · 1 decade ago0 1 Commentcompound......carbon atoms Dhruv A · 1 decade ago0 2 Comment Maybe you would like to learn more about one of these? Looking for a new chandelier? Need debt consolidation loans? Considering an online college? Find the best luxury cars
41780	average salary at aetna for director	D3045031	.	"Director Salary13 12 12Director average salary is $-, median salary is $- with a salary range from $- to $-. Director salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Director salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented ""as is"" and updated regularly. Low-Average-Median-High- Director Jobs Total Salaries. Sorted by Salary, page 1 Ranked By: Jobtitle Company Salary City Year Related Salary Salary Director Salary The Methodist Hospital Research Institute Salary Apogee Medical Group, Salary Dassault Systemes Simulia Salary Fusion Solutions Salary California State University, Northridge Salary Ascendant Technology Salary Liberty Mutual Group Salary Senior Designer Salary Software Programmer Analyst Salary Audit Manager Salary Senior Quality Assurance Analyst Salary Calculate how much you could earn It's FREE. Based on your input and our analysis. How we do it? All fields are required for calculation accuracy. Employer Job Title City Experience Email We will send you an email to access your personalized report. Send Me Now We won’t share your email address Director salary is full-time annual starting salary. Intern, contractor and hourly pay scale vary from regular exempt employee. Compensation depends on work experience, job location, bonus, benefits and other factors. "
439684	liberty michigan in what county	D1089076	Liberty Township, Wexford County, Michigan	"There is also [].http://www.libertytwpmantonmi.us/Liberty Township, Michigan Township Liberty Township, Michigan Location within the state of Michigan Coordinates: 44°28′6″N 85°24′0″WCoordinates: 44°28′6″N 85°24′0″WCountry United States State Michigan County Wexford Area• Total 36.5 sq mi (94.6 km 2)• Land 36.5 sq mi (94.6 km 2)• Water 0.0 sq mi (0.0 km 2)Elevation 1,027 ft (313 m)Population ( 2010)• Total 861• Density 23.6/sq mi (8.5/km 2)Time zone Eastern (EST) ( UTC-5)• Summer ( DST) EDT ( UTC-4)FIPS code 26-47380 [1]GNIS feature ID 1626614 [2]Liberty Township is a civil township of Wexford County in the U. S. state of Michigan. As of the 2010 census, the population was 861. Geography [ edit]According to the United States Census Bureau, the township has a total area of 36.5 square miles (94.6 km²), of which 36.5 square miles (94.6 km²) is land and 0.04 square mile (0.1 km²) (0.05%) is water. Demographics [3] [ edit]As of the census of 2010, there were 861 people, 406 households, and 235 families residing in the township. The population density was 23.6 per square mile (8.5/km²). The housing density was 11.1 per square mile (4.2/km²). The racial makeup of the township was 96.3% White, 0.9% Hispanic or Latino, 0.7% Native American, 0.5% Asian, and 2.6% were two or more races.25.0%% of households had children under the age of 18 living with them, 62.4% were married couples living together, 6.8% had a female householder with no husband present, and 27.0% were non-families. The average household size was 2.64 and the average family size was 3.04. In the township the population was spread out with 25.0% under the age of 18, 6.2% from 18 to 24, 22.5% from 25 to 44, 30.8% from 45 to 64, and 15.6% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 43 years. For every 100 females there were 97 males. The median income for a household in the township was $43,864, and the median income for a family was $40,781. Males had a median income of $28,162 versus $21,250 for females. The per capita income for the township was $17,612. About 5.7% of families and 9.2% of the population were below the poverty line, including 8.3% of those under age 18 and 7.2% of those age 65 or over. References [ edit]^ ""American Fact Finder"". United States Census Bureau. Archived from the original on September 11, 2013. Retrieved 2008-01-31.^ U. S. Geological Survey Geographic Names Information System: Liberty Township, Wexford County, Michigan^ Bureau, U. S. Census. ""American Fact Finder - Community Facts"". factfinder.census.gov. Retrieved 2016-04-08. [ hide]v t e Municipalities and communities of Wexford County, Michigan, United States County seat: Cadillac Cities Cadillac Manton Villages Buckley Harrietta Mesick Charter township Haring General law townships Antioch Boon Cedar Creek Cherry Grove Clam Lake Colfax Greenwood Hanover Henderson Liberty Selma Slagle South Branch Springville Wexford CDPs Boon Caberfae Haring Wedgewood Other unincorporated communities Hoxeyville Meauwataka Sherman Yuma "
443479	lucky go happy meaning	D270306	.	"Top definitionhappy-go-lucky Easy going, carefree, nonchalant. He is such a happy-go-lucky child.by Larstait November 06, 2003367 61Get a happy-go-lucky mug for your guy Zora.2Happy-Go-Lucky A person who is incredibly optimistic and high on life. They are usually peppy and make the best out of every situation. They're fun to be around and can brighten anyone's day. Wouldn't we all want to be as Happy-Go-Lucky as her? She is the most Happy-Go-Lucky person I've ever met. He just had his heart broken and yet he's still so Happy-Go-Lucky.#peppy #happy #perky #fun #optimistby Nessanessness March 26, 2011269 49Get a Happy-Go-Lucky mug for your bunkmate Abdul.3happy go lucky To be happy go lucky, is to be cheerful about most all things. To have a positive view on life. To annoy the shit out of your friends, and to just be a peppy shithead. Ugh, that Richard Simmons is SOO happy go lucky, he makes me sick!#peppy #happy #perky #positive #annoyingby hey fat kids April 01, 2007873 208Get a happy go lucky mug for your Aunt Zora.4happy go lucky People /Hippies that are high on life. They should be shot with a bullet, or a spear, or an axe if you have one. Annoy the rest of us by being Happy, and Going Lucky. I feel so Happy Go Lucky Tod.. < BANG - DEAD >by bobbt.cum February 28, 2003127 518Get a happy go lucky mug for your cousin Beatrix.5happy go lucky Is so easy happy go uh lucky we are the wad of dough we didnt eat QQQQSSS... IOnce upon a time, there was a man who had really swollen testicles. ""Help me,"" he asked a crowd of elderly firefighters. ""My testicles are really swollen, I'd appreciate it if you could recommend a topical analgesic that could make the pain a little less unbearable. ""by Tae November 21, 200387 476Get a happy go lucky mug for your dad James.6Happy go lucky A description applied to an inexplicably happy or care-free, jobless, freeloading, sofa-surfing parasite who runs your bills up, eats your food then tells you how brilliant their day was getting drunk and stoned in the sun whilst you were at work. A ""happy go lucky"" person always manages to find money for pot, beer and pasties for themselves (but not to replace items used) as well as someone else's sofa to sleep on, a fridge to raid and endless bottles of ketchup to consume... The nicest thing I can say about Martin: he's happy go lucky.#happy #go #lucky #irritating #annoying #parasiteby plussix July 14, 201435 172Get a Happy go lucky mug for your Uncle Paul. Trending RN - April 11, 20181. Purse Puppy2. hot poker3. moon on a stick4. April 105. Sanasa6. butt luge7. ifw8. Daje9. Cleveland Accordion10. anal virginity11. sahm12. NSD13. Furkan14. national dick grab day15. Man Carrot16. mullered17. april 1118. SAHM/WAHM19. national grab a guys dick day20. fej21. SV22. in the pink23. Waxahachie24. Monday Blues25. Tingz26. Thumb in a softie27. mondaze28. Eskimo Pie29. what is30. national days "
449076	meaning of revenant	D1300009	revenant	"revenant Also found in: Thesaurus, Medical, Legal, Financial, Encyclopedia, Wikipedia .rev·e·nant (rĕv′ə-nənt)n.1. One that returns after a lengthy absence.2. One who returns after death. [French, from present participle of revenir, to return, from Old French; see revenue . ]American Heritage® Dictionary of the English Language, Fifth Edition. Copyright © 2016 by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company. Published by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company. All rights reserved.revenant ( ˈrɛvɪnənt) nsomething, esp a ghost, that returns [C19: from French: ghost, from revenir to come back, from Latin revenīre, from re- + venīre to come]Collins English Dictionary – Complete and Unabridged, 12th Edition 2014 © Harper Collins Publishers 1991, 1994, 1998, 2000, 2003, 2006, 2007, 2009, 2011, 2014rev•e•nant (ˈrɛv ə nənt)n.1. a person who returns, esp. after a long absence.2. a person who returns as a spirit after death. [1820–30; < French: ghost, n. use of present participle of revenir to return; see revenue, -ant]Random House Kernerman Webster's College Dictionary, © 2010 K Dictionaries Ltd. Copyright 2005, 1997, 1991 by Random House, Inc. All rights reserved. Thesaurus Antonyms Related Words Synonyms Legend: Switch to new thesaurus Noun 1. revenant - a person who returns after a lengthy absenceindividual, mortal, person, somebody, someone, soul - a human being; ""therewas too much for one person to do""2. revenant - someone who has returned from the deadghost - the visible disembodied soul of a dead person Adj. 1. revenant - of or relating to or typical of a revenant; ""revenant shrieks and groans""2. revenant - coming back; ""a revenant ghost""recurringcontinual - occurring without interruption; chiefly restricted to what recurs regularly or frequently in a prolonged and closely spaced series; ""the continual banging of theshutters""Based on Word Net 3.0, Farlex clipart collection. © 2003-2012 Princeton University, Farlex Inc.revenantnoun A supernatural being, such as a ghost:apparition, bogey, bogeyman, bogle, eidolon, ghost, phantasm, phantasma, phantom, shade, shadow, specter, spirit, visitant, wraith. Informal: spook. Regional: haunt. The American Heritage® Roget's Thesaurus. Copyright © 2013, 2014 by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company. Published by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company. All rights reserved. Want to thank TFD for its existence? Tell a friend about us, add a link to this page, or visit the webmaster's page for free fun content . Link to this page: Facebook Twitter "
477273	population of alice tx	D25586	Alice	Alice Alice, TXFavorite Share More Nearby Directions Sponsored Topics Description Alice is a city in and the county seat of Jim Wells County, Texas, United States, in the South Texas region of the state. The population was 19,104 at the 2010 census. Alice was established in 1888. First it was called Bandana, then Kleberg and finally Alice after Alice Gertrudis King Kleberg, the daughter of Richard King, who established the King Ranch. Alice originated from the defunct community of Collins, three miles to the east. Around 1880 the San Antonio and Aransas Pass Railway attempted to build a line through Collins, which then had about 2,000 inhabitants. The townspeople were not amenable to selling their land to the railroad company; consequently, the railroad site was moved three miles west, and in 1883 a depot called Bandana was established at its junction with the Corpus Christi, San Diego and Rio Grande Railway. Bandana soon became a thriving cattle-shipping point, and application for a post office was made under the name Kleberg in honor of Robert Justus Kleberg. The petition was denied because a town named Kleberg already appeared on the post office list, so residents then chose the name Alice, in honor of Alice Gertrudis King Kleberg, Kleberg's wife and the daughter of Richard King. The Alice post office opened for business in 1888. Within a few years the remaining residents of Collins moved to Alice, which was by then a thriving community. The City of Alice was known for its large cattle industry until the discovery of oil and petroleum beneath Alice in the 1940s which caused a slight population boom.
493052	sashes definition	D216214	sash	Contents1 English1.1 Pronunciation1.2 Etymology 11.2.1 Noun1.2.1.1 Synonyms1.2.1.2 Translations1.2.2 Verb1.3 Etymology 21.3.1 Noun1.3.1.1 Synonyms1.3.1.2 Translations English [ edit]This entry needs a photograph or drawing for illustration. Please try to find a suitable image on Wikimedia Commons or upload one there yourself!Pronunciation [ edit]Audio (US)Rhymes: -æʃEtymology 1 [ edit]Arabic شَاش ( šāš, “ muslin cloth ”). Noun [ edit]sash ( plural sashes)A piece of cloth designed to be worn around the waist. A decorative length of cloth worn over the shoulder to the opposite hip, often for ceremonial or other formal occasions. Synonyms [ edit]belt, strap, waistband Translations [ edit]decorative length of cloth The translations below need to be checked and inserted above into the appropriate translation tables, removing any numbers. Numbers do not necessarily match those in definitions. See instructions at Wiktionary: Entry layout#Translations. Translations to be checked Verb [ edit]sash ( third-person singular simple present sashes, present participle sashing, simple past and past participle sashed) ( transitive) To adorn with a sash or scarf. (Can we find and add a quotation of Burke to this entry? )Etymology 2 [ edit] [circa 1680] From sashes, from French châssis ( “ frame (of a window or door) ”), taken as a plural and -s trimmed off by 1704. See also chassis. Noun [ edit]sash ( plural sashes)The opening part ( casement) of a window usually containing the glass panes, hinged to the jamb, or sliding up and down as in a sash window. ( software, graphical user interface) A draggable vertical or horizontal bar used to adjust the relative sizes of two adjacent windows. In a sawmill, the rectangular frame in which the saw is strained and by which it is carried up and down with a reciprocating motion; the gate. Synonyms [ edit] ( GUI): splitter Translations [ edit]opening part of a windowgraphical user interface: draggable barrectangular frame in which a saw is strained
49801	belize tour price	D1227727	.	Belize Tour Rates PLEASE NOTE: All of the tours below are included in our all-inclusive packages, see our adventure and honeymoon packages for details and savings. Tour Price per person Notes CAVING TOURSRiver Cave Expedition $85minimum of 2 persons Waterfall Cave Expedition $90minimum of 2 persons The Black Hole Drop $105minimum of 2 persons Lost World Ceremonial Cave Tour $85minimum of 2 persons River of Caves 7 Mile Cave Tubing $95minimum of 4 persons (July-February)Overnight Caving Expeditions $250minimum of 2 persons Honeymoon Overnight Cave Expedition $450minimum of 2 persons $285 surcharge per person on all packages. Actun Tunichil Muknal $125minimum of 4 persons $35 surcharge per person on all packages. Mon, Wed, and Friday Wishing Well Expedition $85minimum of 2 persons JUNGLE & NATURE TOURSFull Day Jungle Trek $75minimum of 2 persons Overnight Jungle Expeditions $225minimum of 2 persons Jungle Quest Expedition $450minimum of 2 persons Bird Watching Morning: $35 Full Day: $95minimum of 2 persons Jungle Safari After Dark $30minimum of 2 persons Belize Zoo & Baboon Sanctuary $95minimum of 4 persons MAYAN RUINS TOURSXunantunich and Cahal Pech $95minimum of 2 persons Tikal Full Day Trip $175minimum of 4 persons (Tues, Thurs, Sat ) $90 surcharge per person will be charged on packages. OTHER TOURSHorseback Riding $95minimum of 2 persons Zipline Aerial Adventure $75minimum of 4 persons Snorkeling $110minimum of 2 person The Barrier Reef Snorkel trip has a $25 surcharge per person and will be charged on packages. Diving $125minimum of 4 persons -$45 surcharge per person & divers must be certified (equipment not included)ALL PRICES IN US DOLLARS & ARE SUBJECT TO GOVERNMENT SALES TAX (GST) OF 12.5%Please read our Policies before booking Please note: The Tube Float and Zip Line and Snorkeling Day Trip are only offered on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays The Tikal Full Day Trip is offered on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. Lunch is not included on the following day trips: Snorkeling Day Trip Diving the Barrier Reef Xunantunich and Cahal Pech Mayan Ruin Tour Tikal Belize Zoo & Baboon Sanctuary Departure Fees Airport Departure Fees are generally included in the airline ticket. Where it is not included in the ticket price, passengers must pay upon departing Departure Fees of US $35.50, payable in US dollars by Non Belizean Residents. For Belizean Residents the fee is BZ$35.00. A Security Fee of US$0.75 is charged for Domestic Security Screening. Contact us for more information about our Belize tour rates
507876	symptoms of hiv rash	D3132247	HIV Rash	HIV Rash Last Updated On June 20, 2013 By surekha HIV is the short form of Human Immunodeficiency Virus and the person who is infected with this virus will develop skin rash in 2-3 weeks. It is an important sign to know that the individual is infected with HIV. More than 85% of the victims with HIV will develop dark rashes on the skin within few weeks of infection. However having skin rashes do not mean that the person is infected with this virus. The rash can be just a heat rash or psoriasis or other types of skin infection. There are several others signs and symptoms to identify HIV infection. Some of them are loss of appetite, weakened immunity, and diarrhea, loss of memory, poor concentration, sudden weight loss and joint pain. If you have most of the symptoms above along with skin rash, you need to check for the presence of HIV infection with your physician. Getting skin rashes is quite common and that does not mean you are being infected with HIV. Symptoms of HIV Rash : The rash will appear on the body after 2-3 weeks of infection. It often develops on the hands, face, and feet but it can appear on other body parts as well. The rashes will be dark brown or red color with raised bumps or lesions on the affected area. A fair complexioned individual will have dark brown or reddish bumps on the skin and a dark complexioned person will have black colored bumps on several parts of the body. There can be blisters or ulcerous growth on the rashes and it can infect your private parts and mouth and even on eyes. You can find the development of pimples or papules on moist areas of the body. The rashes will be itchy and irritating for the person. HIV rash can occur due to the adverse effect of taking medications for aids. For some people the skin would be peeling on the affected parts with sores formation on the oral cavity and genitals. Other common symptoms of HIV infection are fever, loss of weight, poor concentration, temporary loss of vision and diarrhea. It can also cause joint pain, muscle pain, swollen glands, fatigue and unexplained fever. Rash formation occurs during the third stage of HIV infection and it is the stage when the virus has fully developed on the body. It is very much necessary to consult your doctor and take regular medicines for improving the immunity and for fighting the deadly virus. Diagnoses : Your doctor will inspect the rash on close examination of the body. It will appear as raised brown red color patches that contain tiny papules. He would request for testing the rash by doing a biopsy (removing tiny portion of the lesions and testing it on the lab for the presence of HIV virus). Appearance of rash with fever and diarrhea is indicative of HIV rash. Pictures of HIV Rash : Images, Pics, Pictures and Photos of HIV Rash Treatment : It is true that there is no treatment for HIV infection but the symptoms can always be reduced and treated. Oral histamines are prescribed for managing itching. If you have HIV rash along with the above symptoms avoid going out in hot sunlight and do not expose your skin to cold weather since it can worsen the itchiness. Take regular medicines as instructed by your doctor. The person should learn to cope with the HIV rash since there is no cure for it. Over the counter medications like Benadryl can be taken for controlling itching sensation. You can also use hydrocortisone cream for reducing itchiness and control rashes. Avoid changing your soaps and cosmetics since it can aggravate the rash in other body parts also. In case you think that rashes are formed due to allergic reaction caused by other drugs you can consult your doctor to change or stop that particular medicine. Do not get scared that you have got infected with HIV once you see the rashes on your body. It can be heat rash or eczema or any other skin disorder. Your doctor will have to confirm it after proper diagnoses methods. HIV rash is obviously an unpleasant side effect of the disease. People with HIV infection should learn to live with the rashes and find out ways to manage it for the rest of their life. Blister formation and swelling of lesions can be controlled by proper medications. Avoid taking hot baths and for managing itchiness you can apply cold compress on the affected area many times a day. Wear only cotton clothes that will not cause any irritation. Related posts: Heat Rash Poison Oak Rash Hot Tub Rash – Causes, Symptoms, Pictures, Treatment Viremia – Causes, Symptoms, Tests, Treatment Macular Rash (Maculopapular Rash) – Causes, Symptoms, Pictures, Tests, Treatment Filed Under: Information
52874	biggest bouncy house	D2295502	Bouncy House 'The Beast' Billed as World's Biggest	"Bouncy House 'The Beast' Billed as World's Biggest By Genevieve Shaw Brown Sep 21, 2016, 1:15 PM ETV-Formation WATCH Jump on in to The World's Biggest Bouncy House Email It's childhood dreams come true. ""The Beast"" is being billed as the world's biggest bouncy house. At 893 feet -- that's bigger than two football fields -- The Beast features more than just jumping. It's also a complete obstacle course. V-Formation""The Beast"" is the world's biggest bouncy castle. ""We feel we can realize a huge vibe by providing structures where adults can feel 'kid' again without being ashamed."" Benedikt De Vreese, owner of V-Formatio n, the company that created The Beast, told ABC News. ""It's a great tool to bring people together, to make them help one another and to make people smile. ""V-Formation""The Beast"" is the world's biggest bouncy castle. V-Formation""The Beast"" is the world's biggest bouncy castle. De Vreese added that they plan to make The Beast even bigger. The company wants to extend the length of the obstacle course to 1,000 feet. The Beast is currently in Belgium, but will soon hit the road. De Vreese said India or the U. K. will be the next stop on the bounce house's tour, but ""requests have been coming in from all over the world. ""Comments Add Interests Customize your news feed by choosing the topics that interest you. To save your interests across all devices Log In or Sign Up » "
530363	types of vasculitis	D1364140	Vasculitis	"What is Vasculitis? Vasculitis Causes and Types Vasculitis Symptoms When to Seek Medical Care Exams and Tests Vasculitis Treatment Medical Treatment Medications Follow-up Prevention Outlook What is Vasculitis? Readers Comments 5 Share Your Story The vascular system refers to the collection of all blood vessels in the body. Vasculitis is the term used for a group of diseases characterized by the inflammation of and damage to the blood vessels or the blood vessel walls. Vasculitis (plural vasculitides) can be a primary disease or a secondary condition related to another underlying disease. Different types of vasculitis have certain patterns of distribution that may affect particular organs, certain types of vessels, or specific vessel sizes. Vasculitis diseases affecting arteries are sometimes called arteritis, and those involving the veins are sometimes called venulitis. Overall, vasculitides (all types of vasculitis or vasculitic disorders) are uncommon conditions. In general terms, blood vessels can be divided into arteries, veins, and capillaries. Arteries are the blood vessels carrying oxygenated blood from the lungs away from the heart to different organs. Veins are blood vessels collecting the blood without oxygen from the body organs to carry back to heart to be pumped to the lungs where it receives oxygen. The largest artery is the aorta coming out of the left side of the heart. The aorta divides into many smaller branches as it passes through the body, thus giving rise to arteries of different sizes. The small arteries (arterioles) then branch further into capillaries, which are very small blood vessels distributed diffusely within all organs of the body. The exchange of oxygen and waste products between the blood vessels and tissues happens at the level of the capillaries. These small blood vessels then coalesce to form small veins (venules) which give rise to larger and larger veins that eventually end up in the right side of the heart via the body's largest vein, the vena cava. Rheumatoid Arthritis Slideshow Pictures Take the RA Quiz Rheumatoid Arthritis Exercises Slideshow Pictures Vasculitis Causes and Types The causes of vasculitis diseases are largely unknown. Immunologic abnormalities (autoimmune disorders) seem to be the underlying cause for many vasculitic disorders, leading to inflammatory changes in the blood vessels walls. Vasculitis diseases can involve certain blood vessel types or sizes. They may also involve certain organs. The most common classification system is based on blood vessel size. Vasculitis affecting large blood vessels Vasculitis affecting large blood vessels is called large vessel vasculitis and may include Takayasu arteritis and giant cell arteritis. Takayasu arteritis typically involves the aorta and its main branches. Giant cell arteritis or temporal arteritis generally affects the branches of the aorta that supply blood to the head. Medium-vessel vasculitic disorders Medium-vessel vasculitic disorders include polyarteritis nodosa (PAN), Kawasaki disease, and vasculitis of the central nervous system. PAN classically affects the medium- to small-sized arteries, and it mainly involves the vessels of the kidneys (renal vasculitis) and the gut. A variation of this condition may affect smaller vessels and is called microscopic polyangiitis or microscopic polyarteritis. Some association exists between hepatitis B infection and PAN. Kawasaki disease is a type of medium- and small-vessel vasculitis affecting the arteries of the heart (coronary arteries) in children. It is associated with a generalized febrile infection of the children, which can cause vasculitis of the heart in the convalescence period of the illness. Vasculitis of the central nervous system (CNS vasculitis or cerebral vasculitis) is a rare disease characterized by inflammation of the arteries of the brain and the spinal cord. This condition may sometimes be associated with some viral infections, Hodgkin's disease, syphilis, and amphetamine use. In some instances, no underlying cause can be identified. Small-vessel vasculitic diseases There are several types of small-vessel vasculitic diseases. Churg-Strauss arteritis is an uncommon small-vessel disease which mainly affects the skin (cutaneous vasculitis) and the lung, although it rarely can involve other organs. Wegener's granulomatosis is vasculitis of small arterioles and venules. It can affect many organs of the body (systemic vasculitis), but it usually involves the kidneys, the lungs (pulmonary vasculitis), and upper respiratory tract (nasal cavity and sinuses). Certain antibodies (antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies or ANCA) are associated with Wegener's disease and may be detected in the blood these patients. Henoch-Schonlein purpura is another small-vessel vasculitis which also affects many different organs (systemic vasculitis). This vasculitis is seen in infants, children, and adults, but it is more common in children between four to seven years of age. Hypersensitivity vasculitis is the term used for types of small-vessel vasculitis that may be related to an allergic insult to blood vessels. The main areas of involvement of these conditions are cutaneous (affecting the skin) as they damage the small vessels of the skin, and, therefore, they may also be called predominantly cutaneous vasculitis or cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis. Essential cryoglobulinemia vasculitis is another type of rare small-vessel disease. Cryoglobulins are small protein complexes that can precipitate in cold temperatures. They may cause vascular inflammation by depositing in the vessel walls. Some small-vessel vasculitis diseases can be related to an underlying rheumatologic disorder (connective tissue disorders), such as systemic lupus erythematosus ( SLE) or lupus vasculitis, rheumatoid arthritis or rheumatoid vasculitis, Behcet's disease, or relapsing polychondritis. These conditions are typically confined to small vessels. Small- and medium-vessel vasculitis can also be caused certain viruses. The most common viruses associated with vasculitis are hepatitis B, hepatitis C, human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ), cytomegalovirus (CMV), Epstein-Barr virus, and parvovirus B19. Wegener's Granulomatosis What is Wegener's granulomatosis (WG)? Wegener's granulomatosis (WG) is a rare disease in which blood vessels become inflamed (a condition called vasculitis) and localized, nodular collections of abnormal inflammatory cells, known as granulomas, are found in affected tissues. Read more about Wegener's granulomatosis symptoms and treatments»Vasculitis Symptoms The signs and symptoms of vasculitis can be very vague, generalized, and non-specific. This is because of the complexity and variability of the different types of vasculitic diseases. It is also important to realize that vasculitis, as a whole, is a rare condition compared to other common conditions that may also cause similar signs and symptoms. It may be safe to say that most of the signs and symptoms related to vasculitis are caused because the inflammation of the blood vessels results in impaired or complete lack of blood flow to the specific organ (s) supplied by the affected blood vessels. For example: CNS vasculitis may cause headaches, confusion, or focal neurologic problems. Churg-Strauss vasculitis can have symptoms similar to asthma because of its involvement of the lungs. Henoch-Schonlein purpura can present as purpura (small raised purple areas under the skin due to hemorrhage ), abdominal pain or nausea and vomiting, joint pain, or blood in the urine ( hematuria) because of its systemic involvement. Temporal arteritis may present as a headache and tender, thick blood vessels on the side of the forehead. Cutaneous vasculitis may cause purpura, urticaria ( hives ), or ulcers of the skin. Rheumatoid Arthritis Slideshow Pictures Take the RA Quiz Rheumatoid Arthritis Exercises Slideshow Pictures When to Seek Medical Care Vasculitis diseases, in general, are serious conditions and need to be evaluated promptly. The difficulty is that they may be difficult to recognize even by doctors, because they are uncommon conditions which are not encountered routinely. Typically, internal medicine doctors (internists), rheumatologists, dermatologists (skin doctors), eye doctors (ophthalmologists), lung doctors (pulmonologists), and kidney doctors (nephrologists) may recognize signs and manifestations of vasculitic diseases and may initiate the diagnostic evaluation for vasculitic conditions. Manage Diabetes in 10 Minutes Erectile Dysfunction Type 2 Diabetes Warning Signs Health Benefits of Sex Scalp, Hair and Nails ADHD Symptoms in Children? Bad Bugs and Their Bites Sex Drive Killers Cancerous Tumors Multiple Sclerosis Adult Skin Problems Habits That Wreck Your Teeth Manage Diabetes in 10 Minutes Erectile Dysfunction Type 2 Diabetes Warning Signs Health Benefits of Sex Scalp, Hair and Nails ADHD Symptoms in Children? Bad Bugs and Their Bites Sex Drive Killers Cancerous Tumors Multiple Sclerosis Adult Skin Problems Habits That Wreck Your Teeth Exams and Tests Diagnosis of vasculitis may be challenging because of significant overlap of signs and symptoms with other more common conditions. A careful medical history and complete physical exam are the initial steps if the diagnosis of some type of vasculitis is suspected. Depending on the organ that may be affected, certain laboratory tests and X-rays may be ordered. For example, routine blood work ( complete blood count, electrolytes, and kidney and liver blood tests ), urinalysis, and chest X-ray may be the basic diagnostic tests ordered. In general, some markers of vasculitis can be measured, which may provide additional supporting information in the evaluation of vasculitis. These tests include levels of ANCA, tests for specific viral infections, and markers of rheumatic diseases for lupus and rheumatoid arthritis. Biopsy of an organ affected by vasculitis is essential in making or supporting the diagnosis of a vasculitis disease. The biopsy is typically done from the skin, kidneys, or the lungs. Brain biopsy can be performed if brain vasculitis is suspected. Angiograms are sometimes done to assess the physical appearance of blood vessels. This can be done by injecting a dye into the blood vessels and taking specific X-rays as it is traveling inside the vessels. This test may be useful in vasculitis involving larger blood vessels. Vasculitis may be diagnosed upon the examination of the eyes by an eye doctor (ophthalmologist). Diagnosis of the retinal vasculitis (vasculitis involving the retina or the inner surface of the eye) may trigger an investigation to find a systemic cause including lupus vasculitis, temporal arteritis, PAN, Wegener's disease, or Behcet's disease. Rheumatoid Arthritis Slideshow Pictures Take the RA Quiz Rheumatoid Arthritis Exercises Slideshow Pictures Vasculitis Treatment When the diagnosis of a specific vasculitis is made, adherence to medications and awareness of symptoms of the disease are important steps to follow at home. Medical Treatment Readers Comment 1 Share Your Story If vasculitis is related to a primary medical condition, then underlying condition needs to be addressed and treated appropriately. For example, treating hepatitis infection or lupus may be the first step in treating the vasculitis associated with these diseases. Rheumatoid Arthritis Slideshow Pictures Take the RA Quiz Rheumatoid Arthritis Exercises Slideshow Pictures Medications The medical treatment of vasculitis largely depends on the severity of disease and the organs involved. In general, treatment is directed toward stopping or slowing the inflammatory process going on in the blood vessels. The most common medications used are the steroid-based anti-inflammatory medications (corticosteroids), such as prednisone. Other immunologic medications may also be used in the treatment of vasculitis, such as cyclophosphamide ( Cytoxan ), azathioprine ( Imuran, Azasan ), or methotrexate (Rheumatrex, Trexall ). Follow-up It is very important for patients diagnosed with vasculitis to routinely follow-up with their treating physician. The response to treatment, routine evaluation of the markers of the disease, and assessment of affected organs are integral parts of follow-up care for vasculitis. Perhaps, more importantly, evaluation of possible side effects of, or intolerance to, the strong medications used to treat vasculitis makes routine follow-up with the physician essential. Depending on the type of vasculitis and its response to the medication, the treating doctor sometimes may opt to taper the medications to a lower dose or completely discontinue the medications. Rheumatoid Arthritis Slideshow Pictures Take the RA Quiz Rheumatoid Arthritis Exercises Slideshow Pictures Prevention Because the majority of vasculitis conditions are auto-immune (the body's own immune system attacking the blood vessels), there may be no preventive measures. Some of the types related to infections or allergic reactions may be preventable if the infection is prevented or the allergic agent is avoided. Outlook The overall outlook for vasculitis depends of the severity of the condition and the underlying cause. Regardless of the type, prompt recognition, diagnosis, and treatment of these uncommon conditions carries a favorable prognosis. Medically reviewed by Robert J. Bryg, MD; Board Certified Internal Medicine with subspecialty in Cardiovascular Disease REFERENCE: ""Overview of the management of vasculitis in adults"" Up To Date.com "
53418	biggest recent breaches of security	D450772	Yahoo data breach is among the biggest in history	"The Big Crunch Yahoo data breach is among the biggest in history Mark Fahey | Nick Wells Published 3:09 PM ET Thu, 22 Sept 2016 Updated 11:19 AM ET Mon, 26 Sept 2016CNBC.com Yahoo hack attack: Biggest data breach ever 2:18 PM ET Fri, 23 Sept 2016 | 01:10At least 500 million user accounts have been stolen from Yahoo, the company confirmed on Thursday. The data breach is the largest from a single site in history, according to a database of other hacking incidents. In August, hackers were discovered trying to sell 200 million Yahoo accounts, which would have been the second-largest single breach. Recode reported on Thursday morning that the company was poised to confirm the compromised data, and that it was even worse than originally believed. The data, which was stolen in late 2014 by what the company called a ""state-sponsored actor,"" may include names, emails, telephone numbers, dates of birth, hashed passwords, and security questions and answers, but not financial information, according to the company. Russian hackers pulled off what seems like a much bigger haul of 1.2 billion users in 2014, but that data was stolen from hundreds of thousands of sites and combined into a single collection. The total numbers around cyberattacks are sometimes contested, but here's a rundown of the some of the biggest data breaches, according to a database maintained by Privacy Rights Clearinghouse:1.2 billion accounts After several months of research, cyber security firm Hold Security discovered that an unnamed Russian gang had amassed more than 4.5 billion credentials from websites across the web. About 1.2 billion of those were unique. That amazing feat of online thievery was accomplished by buying a smaller set of credentials and using those to attack sites. They also used compromised accounts to search the web for other vulnerable sites, eventually robbing over 420,000 sites of all sizes.360 million My Space users Sometime before June 2013, the once-popular social networking site My Space was attacked. It wasn't until May 2016 that the company (then owned by Time) reported that 360 million accounts, with user names, passwords and emails, were for sale in an online hacker forum. My Space reacted by invalidating the passwords of accounts that were known to be included in the leak. Even so, users frequently use similar passwords on different sites, so stolen passwords can be used to gain access to other sites as well. The hack was attributed to the Russian hacker ""Peace,"" who also posted the original offer to sell the 200 million Yahoo accounts for $1,800 earlier this year.167 million Linked In users""Peace"" was also found trying to sell 167 million Linked In user accounts — 117 million of which had both emails and encrypted passwords — in 2016. The stolen data originated in a hack of the social network in 2012, during which 6.5 million passwords were reported as stolen. Hundreds of millions of users not only had to change their Linked In passwords, but also had to worry about hackers using their information on other sites. For the full database for sale on the dark web marketplace, ""Peace"" was asking for only $2,200 in bitcoin.145 million e Bay users Three months after its system was compromised using stolen login credentials from several employees, e Bay announced that 145 million users would have to change their passwords. Financial information in the related Pay Pal money transfer service was not compromised, and the company said that no financial fraud was detected. The hackers gained access to customer names, encrypted passwords, email addresses, physical addresses, phone number and dates of birth. Security experts said that criminals would be able to use that information for more old fashioned scams over the phone.130 million Heartland credit cards The 2008 attack on credit card processing company Heartland is the smallest and oldest on our list, but arguably caused more damage than larger hacks. Attackers spent months installing malware in a system that gave them access to credit card data. Visa and Master Card noticed suspicious activity and alerted the company. Heartland eventually paid about $140 million in fines and penalties for the data breach, and an American hacker was sentenced to 20 years in prison for his role in the attack. Mark Fahey Data Journalist Nick Wells Data Journalist Related Securities Symbol Price Change %Change TIME19.65 UNCH 0%Most Popular Dow plunges more than 550 points to end the week as trade war fears rattle Wall Street BET founder: Trump's economy is bringing black workers back into the labor force Ford recalls about 350,000 F-150s and Expeditions for faulty transmission gears Conservative Koch brothers network breaks with Trump over brewing trade war with China Facebook sent a doctor on a secret mission to ask hospitals to share patient data "
534566	used malibu engine.	D2069981	Used Chevy Malibu Engines	Used Chevy Malibu Engines The Chevrolet Malibu, named after Malibu, California was introduced in 1964 as a top-of-the-line sub series of the full size Chevelle. A lot of body styles were offered under the Malibu name including a four door sedan and a sporty 2 door coupe called the Malibu SS. GET AN INSTANT, FREE ENGINEPRICE QUOTE!The Malibu's have seen many changes throughout the years. And the present generation of Malibu engines are no exception. These engines have aluminum blocks and heads, dual overhead cams, four valves per cylinder, twin balance shafts, and variable valve timing. Why SWEngines? One of the Nation's Biggest Inventories of Used Engines. All Engines Endorsed with the Finest Warranties. Each Engine is Thoroughly Cleaned, Tested and Inspected. Experience You Can Trust. Finding your own engine should be simple and easy. JUST use the search feature at the top of this page to get connected with the precise engine you need right now. Pledge of Quality Our Engines are stored Indoors away from the elements. Each used engine we ship is tested to the hilt for performance. Your Satisfaction is our Highest Goal. Advantages of Buying Engines from SWEngines The Best Price and Quality. Getting the Right Engine for your Car. Top Tier Warranty. Vast Inventory to find the Right Used Engine you need. Free Shipping to Anywhere in the 48 Continental United States. Keep driving your car for years to come with a used engine from SWEngines. Contact us today at 1-866-319-1058 to talk to an expert.
557643	what are diagnostic procedures	D392694	diagnostic procedure	"diagnostic procedure Also found in: Thesaurus, Wikipedia. Related to diagnostic procedure: clinical diagnosis, diagnosticians, surgical diagnosis Thesaurus Antonyms Related Words Synonyms Legend: Switch to new thesaurus Noun 1. diagnostic procedure - a procedure followed in making a medical diagnosisdiagnostic techniquemedical diagnosis - identification of a disease from its symptomsprenatal diagnosis - any of the diagnostic procedures used to determine whether a fetus has a genetic abnormalitycardiography, electrocardiography - diagnostic procedure consisting of recordingthe activity of the heart electronically with a cardiograph (and producing a cardiogram)echocardiography - a noninvasive diagnostic procedure that uses ultrasound to study to structure and motions of the heartechoencephalography - a noninvasive diagnostic procedure that uses ultrasound to study the anatomy of the brainauscultation - listening to sounds within the body (usually with a stethoscope)roentgenography, X-ray photography - radiography that uses X-rays to produce a roentgenogramelectromyography - diagnosis of neuromuscular disorders with the use of an electromyographmammography - a diagnostic procedure to detect breast tumors by the use of X raysthermography - diagnostic technique using a thermograph to record the heatproduced by different parts of the body; used to study blood flow and to detect tumorsprocedure, process - a particular course of action intended to achieve a result; ""theprocedure of obtaining a driver's license""; ""it was a process of trial and error""Based on Word Net 3.0, Farlex clipart collection. © 2003-2012 Princeton University, Farlex Inc. Want to thank TFD for its existence? Tell a friend about us, add a link to this page, or visit the webmaster's page for free fun content . Link to this page:<a href=""https://www.thefreedictionary.com/diagnostic+procedure"">diagnostic procedure</a>Facebook Twitter "
558088	what are economic impacts of geothermal energy	D102881	.	6.1. How does geothermal energy benefit the U. S. economy?6.2. Is geothermal market investment growing?6.3. How does geothermal energy benefit local economies?6.4. How does geothermal energy benefit developing countries?6.1. How does geothermal energy benefit the U. S. economy? Geothermal power is a low cost energy source that diversifies the fuel supply and benefits the transitioning power grid. It does not require purchase of fuel, and because it is a baseload resource, geothermal power is reliable, helping to stabilize prices. It is also dispatchable, or able to be ramped up or down quickly to make up for intermittency caused by wind or solar power. The average cost of geothermal plant over its lifetime is dramatically lower than that of traditional sources of power. Geothermal energy is locally produced, reducing foreign oil imports and boosting rural economies through royalties and tax payments. A geothermal power project development will involve hundreds of individuals, employing local people full time as well as stimulating induced jobs.6.2. Is geothermal market investment growing? A 2006 GEA estimate showed that for every dollar invested in geothermal energy, the resulting growth of output to the U. S. economy is $2.50, or, a geothermal investment of $400 million would result in a growth of output of $1 billion for the entire U. S. economy. Renewable energy technology projects worldwide saw $70.9 billion of new investments in 2006, and $117.2 billion in 2007, according to a DOE assessment. “This is no longer just an interesting alternative, but a large scale transformation in global energy markets,” DOE wrote. Since that time, the capital represented by geothermal projects coming on line has increased substantially. With roughly 100 MW added annually in the U. S., and projects taking several years to construct, the capital investment in new U. S. geothermal projects would be in excess of $10 billion. The geothermal industry is supported by both public and private investments. In 2008, Google.org outspent the government at the time and was the largest private investor in geothermal, injecting $11 million in advanced geothermal technology research and development. Table 3 summarizes a 2006 WGA estimate that near-term geothermal development of approximately 5,600 MW would result in nearly $85 billion dollars to the U. S. economy over 30 years. Potential also exists in Wyoming, Montana, Texas, Kansas, Nebraska, South Dakota, and North Dakota, but the resource in those states was not studied in the WGA report. Table 3. Near-Term Geothermal Potential & Resulting Economic Contribution State New Power Capacity (MW)30-Year Economic Output (nominal)California2,400$36 billion Nevada1,500$22.5 billion Oregon380$5.7 billion Washington50$749 million Alaska25$375 million Arizona20$300 million Colorado20$300 million Hawaii70$1 billion Idaho860$12.9 billion New Mexico80$1.2 billion Utah230$3.4 billion Total5,635 MW$84,410,046,000.00Assuming an average capital cost of a geothermal project corresponding to $4000/k W. U. S. Department of Energy “Geothermal Risk Mitigation”The funding facilitated geothermal heat maps that can be accessed at Google Earth, http://www.google.org/egs/.6.3. How does geothermal energy benefit local economies? Rural areas, where many of the geothermal resources that can be produced for energy consumption are located, can suffer from economic depression and high unemployment. Geothermal developers bring significant economic advantages such as jobs and tax payments. Many geothermal companies provide additional voluntary contributions to their neighbor communities. In Imperial County, California, Mid American Renewables is the single largest taxpayer. Overall geothermal activities supply a full 25% of the county tax base, and over $12 million in tax revenue. In Nevada, geothermal power plants pay sales and use tax, property tax, net proceeds of mine tax, modified business tax, bonus lease payments, royalties to the state and county, salaries and benefits to employees, and a range of local vendors for products and services. Since enactment of the 2005 Geothermal Steam Act Amendments, 25% of revenues from geothermal leasing and production are allotted to state and local governments. In 2008, Nevada received $7.5 million and put all of the money in a state fund that supports K-12 schools throughout the state. The same year, California received $9.9 million and put 40% to the counties of origin; another 30% to the Renewable Resources Investment Fund; and 30% to the CEC for grants or loans to local jurisdictions or private entities. Geothermal power plants can be a tourist draw when students, scientists, or interested individuals visit the site, thereby bringing business to the local community. Iceland's most popular tourist destination is the Blue Lagoon, a geothermal spa connected to the Svartsengi power plant in the island’s southwest. As of August 2012, the Calpine Geysers Visitor Center in California had hosted more than 75,000 visitors from all 50 U. S. states and 79 countries since it opened in 2001. Photo: Blue Lagoon, Iceland, Draws Tourists to its Geothermal Hot Springs GEA “A Handbook,” page 16Mid American Energy Holdings Company operates geothermal energy through Mid American Renewables (formerly Cal Energy U. S.). GEA “Why Support”GEA “Geothermal Revenue,” page 5GEA “A Handbook,” page 16Mid American Energy Holdings Company operates geothermal energy through Mid American Renewables (formerly Cal Energy U. S.). GEA “Why Support”GEA “Geothermal Revenue,” page 56.4. How does geothermal energy benefit developing countries? Kenya, Indonesia, and many Caribbean islands are some of the developing countries that stand to directly benefit from developing their abundant geothermal resources. Geothermal energy can provide answers to infrastructure needs while preserving the cleanliness of these regions. Many developing countries are seeking energy and economic independence while learning from the lessons, both positive and negative, of the trade and subsidy practices employed by developed nations. Australia, China, Germany, Iceland, Italy, Japan, and the U. S. are some of the more developed countries that are facilitating geothermal development projects around the world. This support includes financing as well as technology sharing, training, and geological surveys. Indonesia holds about 40% of the world’s known geothermal resources, but has developed very little of this. Since geothermal energy is developed locally rather than extracted and transported around the world, Indonesia could develop its geothermal resources for local use thereby freeing up its portable energy fuels—such as coal and natural gas—for higher mark-up export. The East African Rift System is another of the world’s largest known geothermal reserves, and energy needs in Africa are a topic of international interest. Biomass production has led to unwanted deforestation, and droughts have made hydropower plants unreliable. Dependence on expensive, imported petro-products and diesel supplies has increased in recent years. The Rift System’s geothermal resources could provide an indigenous generation system with a predictable supply and price for remote locations. GEA “International” 2010Updated April 3, 2014 by L. Blodgett Next Page: Power Plant Costs
561965	what are monocytes on a blood test	D301469	Monocyte count	Health Guide Health Encyclopedia Lab Tests Drug Guide Drug Notes Spanish Drug Notes Detailed Drug Information Alternative Medicine Monocyte count What is this test? This test measures the amount of monocytes in blood. Monocytes are a type of white blood cell (WBC). This test is used to evaluate and manage blood disorders, certain problems with the immune system, and cancers, including monocytic leukemia [1]. This test may also be used to evaluate for the risk of complications after a heart attack [2]. What are other names for this test? Monocyte count - observation What are related tests? Monocyte count Complete blood count with white cell differential, manual Evaluation of bone marrow myeloid cells Peripheral blood smear interpretation Why do I need this test? Laboratory tests may be done for many reasons. Tests are performed for routine health screenings or if a disease or toxicity is suspected. Lab tests may be used to determine if a medical condition is improving or worsening. Lab tests may also be used to measure the success or failure of a medication or treatment plan. Lab tests may be ordered for professional or legal reasons. You may need this test if you have: Heart attack Monocytic leukemia Monocytopenia Monocytosis When and how often should I have this test? When and how often laboratory tests are done may depend on many factors. The timing of laboratory tests may rely on the results or completion of other tests, procedures, or treatments. Lab tests may be performed immediately in an emergency, or tests may be delayed as a condition is treated or monitored. A test may be suggested or become necessary when certain signs or symptoms appear. Due to changes in the way your body naturally functions through the course of a day, lab tests may need to be performed at a certain time of day. If you have prepared for a test by changing your food or fluid intake, lab tests may be timed in accordance with those changes. Timing of tests may be based on increased and decreased levels of medications, drugs or other substances in the body. The age or gender of the person being tested may affect when and how often a lab test is required. Chronic or progressive conditions may need ongoing monitoring through the use of lab tests. Conditions that worsen and improve may also need frequent monitoring. Certain tests may be repeated to obtain a series of results, or tests may need to be repeated to confirm or disprove results. Timing and frequency of lab tests may vary if they are performed for professional or legal reasons. How should I get ready for the test? Before having blood collected, tell the person drawing your blood if you are allergic to latex. Tell the healthcare worker if you have a medical condition or are using a medication or supplement that causes excessive bleeding. Also tell the healthcare worker if you have felt nauseated, lightheaded, or have fainted while having blood drawn in the past. How is the test done? When a blood sample from a vein is needed, a vein in your arm is usually selected. A tourniquet (large rubber strap) may be secured above the vein. The skin over the vein will be cleaned, and a needle will be inserted. You will be asked to hold very still while your blood is collected. Blood will be collected into one or more tubes, and the tourniquet will be removed. When enough blood has been collected, the healthcare worker will take the needle out. How will the test feel? The amount of discomfort you feel will depend on many factors, including your sensitivity to pain. Communicate how you are feeling with the person doing the test. Inform the person doing the test if you feel that you cannot continue with the test. During a blood draw, you may feel mild discomfort at the location where the blood sample is being collected. What should I do after the test? After a blood sample is collected from your vein, a bandage, cotton ball, or gauze may be placed on the area where the needle was inserted. You may be asked to apply pressure to the area. Avoid strenuous exercise immediately after your blood draw. Contact your healthcare worker if you feel pain or see redness, swelling, or discharge from the puncture site. What are the risks? Blood: During a blood draw, a hematoma (blood-filled bump under the skin) or slight bleeding from the puncture site may occur. After a blood draw, a bruise or infection may occur at the puncture site. The person doing this test may need to perform it more than once. Talk to your healthcare worker if you have any concerns about the risks of this test. What are normal results for this test? Laboratory test results may vary depending on your age, gender, health history, the method used for the test, and many other factors. If your results are different from the results suggested below, this may not mean that you have a disease. Contact your healthcare worker if you have any questions. The following are considered to be normal results for this test: Adults: Absolute: 0.2-0.95 x 10 3 cells/micro L [3]Relative: 4%-11% [4]Adults, 21 years: Absolute: 0-0.8 x 10 3 cells/micro L [3]Relative: 4% [1]Neonates, Birth to 2 days Absolute: 0-2 x 10 3 cells/micro L [3]Neonates, 4 days to 28 days: Absolute: 0-1.7 x 10 3 cells/micro L [3]Infants, 1 to 4 weeks: Absolute: 0.7 x 10 3 cells/micro L [3]Infants, 6 months to 1 year: Absolute: 0.6 x 10 3 cells/micro L [3]Infants, 1 year: Relative: 4.8% [1]Children, 2 years: Absolute: 0-1 x 10 3 cells/micro L [3]Children, 4 to 10 years: Absolute: 0-0.8 x 10 3 cells/micro L [3]Relative: 4.3%-5% [1]What follow up should I do after this test? Ask your healthcare worker how you will be informed of the test results. You may be asked to call for results, schedule an appointment to discuss results, or notified of results by mail. Follow up care varies depending on many factors related to your test. Sometimes there is no follow up after you have been notified of test results. At other times follow up may be suggested or necessary. Some examples of follow up care include changes to medication or treatment plans, referral to a specialist, more or less frequent monitoring, and additional tests or procedures. Talk with your healthcare worker about any concerns or questions you have regarding follow up care or instructions. Where can I get more information? Related Companies American Academy of Allergy, Asthma, and Immunology - http://www.aaaai.org American Cancer Society - http://www.cancer.org References: [1] Henry JB: Clinical Diagnosis and Management by Laboratory Methods, 20th ed. Saunders, 2001. [2] Maekawa Y, Anzai T, Yoshikawa T, et al: Prognostic significance of peripheral monocytosis after reperfused acute myocardial infarction:a possible role for left ventricular remodeling. J Am Coll Cardiol 2002; 39 (2):241-246. [3] Tietz NW (Ed): Clinical Guide to Laboratory Tests, 3rd ed. W. B. Saunders, Philadelphia, PA, 1995. [4] Kratz A, Ferraro M, Sluss PM, et al: Case records of the Massachusetts General Hospital: laboratory values. N Engl J Med 2004; 351 (15):1549-1563. Last Updated: 3/29/2016 Copyright © 1984-2018 Thomson Micromedex. All rights reserved.
57174	burger king alexandria hours	D3085918	Burger King Hours	Restaurant info The Burger King chain is one of the best representatives of American cuisine in Alexandria. This specific restaurant is located at 7914 Alexandria Pike, Alexandria, 41001-1189 KY. You can call them by dialing (859) 448-9144. Burger King In Alexandria, Alexandria Pike is open for business during the following hours: on Monday (6:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m.), Tuesday (6:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m.), Wednesday (6:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m.), Thursday (6:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m.), Friday (6:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m.), Saturday (6:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m.) and Sunday (7:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m.). There is a total of 79 locations representing the Burger King brand in the state, 3 in the county and 1 in town. Locals from places such as Cold Spring (3.8 miles away), Wilder (5.3 miles away), New Richmond (5.6 miles away) come to dine at Burger King in Alexandria. Image may be subject to copyright Terms of Use Map Satellite Other places nearby KFC in Alexandria, Alexandria Pike (0.19 mile)Arbys in Alexandria, Alexandria Pike (0.88 mile)True Value in Alexandria, Alexandria Pike (1.29 miles)Home Depot in Cold Spring, Crossroads Blvd (2.7 miles)Chipotle in Highland Heights, Wilson Ave (5.59 miles)Smashburger in Highland Heights, Wilson Rd (5.62 miles)Dairy Queen in Wilder, Town Dr (5.79 miles)
582376	what can studying neurobiology help for	D772352	Neurobiology	"Reference Terms from Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Neurobiology Neurobiology is the study of cells of the nervous system and the organization of these cells into functional circuits that process information and mediate behavior. It is a subdiscipline of both biology and neuroscience. Neurobiology differs from neuroscience, a much broader field that is concerned with any scientific study of the nervous system. Neurons are cells that are specialized to receive, propagate, and transmit electrochemical impulses. In the human brain alone, there are over a hundred billion neurons. Neurons are diverse with respect to morphology and function. Note: The above text is excerpted from the Wikipedia article "" Neurobiology "", which has been released under the GNU Free Documentation License. For more information, see the following related content on Science Daily: Related Stories Neurobiology: Supporting the Damaged Brain Oct. 28, 2016 — Embryonic nerve cells can functionally integrate into local neural networks when transplanted into damaged areas of the visual cortex of adult mice, say ... read more Of Brains and Bones: How Hunger Neurons Control Bone Mass Sep. 24, 2015 — In an advance that helps clarify the role of a cluster of neurons in the brain, researchers have found that these neurons not only control hunger and appetite, but also regulate bone ... read more Deciphering the Role of Brain Layers Nov. 19, 2015 — New research sheds light into the role of layers in the brain. The study shows that the formation of layers speeds the development of neuronal circuits although, surprisingly, it is not crucial for ... read more Cells Send out Stop Signs July 6, 2016 — Eph receptors and their partner proteins, the ephrins, are vital for intercellular communication. In the developing brain, they guide young neurons to the right partner cells by repulsion. They also ... read more Cells That Show Where Things Are Going Feb. 5, 2016 — The ability to see the direction in which something is moving is vital for survival. Only in this way is it possible to avoid predators, capture prey or, as humans in a modern world, cross a road ... read more A 'GPS' to Navigate the Brain's Neuronal Networks Apr. 27, 2015 — Scientists have announced a ""Neuronal Positioning System"" (NPS) that maps the circuitry of the brain, similar to how a Global Positioning System (GPS) receiver triangulates one's ... read more Study Challenges View That Sight-Based Brain Sensory Network Organization Is Impaired With Blindness Apr. 13, 2015 — New research shows the way the brain organizes its visual sense remains intact even in people blind from birth, and the pattern of functional connectivity between the visual area and the ... read more Little Understood Cell Helps Mice See Color Dec. 14, 2017 — Color vision in mice is far more complex than originally thought, opening the door to experiments that could potentially lead to new treatments for humans, report ... read more Biologists Discover New Strategy to Treat Central Nervous System Injury Apr. 11, 2016 — Neurobiologists have discovered how signals that orchestrate the construction of the nervous system also influence recovery after traumatic injury. They also found that manipulating these signals can ... read more Functional Brain Organization of Newborns Altered by Prenatal Cocaine Exposure Apr. 6, 2015 — Cocaine-specific disruptions have been seen in a part of the brain circuitry thought to play an important role in arousal regulation, a new study of newborns with prenatal drug exposure finds. ... read more RELATED TOPICSMind & Brain Neuroscience Disorders and Syndromes Psychology Plants & Animals Developmental Biology Biology Biochemistry Research RELATED TERMSNeuron Neuroscience Sensory neuron Myelin Chemical synapse Action potentialadvertisement Mind & Brain News April 1, 2018Class Times Affect Grades Slow, Steady Waves Keep Brain Humming Monkeys' Brains Synchronize as They Collaborate Prosthetic Helps Brain Encode and Recall Memories Latest Headlines updated 12:56 pm ETRemake, Refill, Reuse: Recycling at the Synapse Revealed Mar. 26, 2018 — Neurons in the brain form tangled webs of connections. Within these webs, cells communicate with each other to control motor, cognitive and other ... read more Recycling at the Synapse Revealed Probing the Complex Nature of Concussion Impact of Neonatal Abstinence Syndrome Early Roots of Neurodegeneration Can a Mediterranean Diet Slow Aging? Developmental Origins of Interneurons Loneliness and First Time Heart Disease, Stroke Stroke Affects More Than Just the Physical Investing in Public Education: Upward Mobility Body Language in Job Interviewsmore stories "
583447	what cars use qnx	D2441003	BlackBerry's QNX: Why it's so valuable to Apple, Google, auto industry	0Apple's Car Play connects into Black Berry's QNX platform. Apple's Car Play has to ride on top of Black Berry's QNX platform for in-auto entertainment systems. Ford was reportedly pondering a swap from Microsoft to QNX to for its Sync platform. And it's highly likely that the front end of Google's Android in-vehicle efforts are also going to have a QNX play. Asking for automotive smartphone integration as an optional extra CNET Review: Apple won't own the dashboard with Car Play So when Black Berry CEO John Chen calls QNX one of the crown jewels of the company he's not kidding. Here's what Chen said in December on Black Berry's last earnings call: QNX is probably one of the crown jewels. Every time I come here, our partners call me and customers call me that really want to work with us on QNX... The plan is to invest in this and grow. The plan is to go by other vertical because we are doing very well in automotive vertical, we are going to continue to focus on that, but we're going to start looking in adjacent verticals to expand the business. In addition to that, we're going to build a platform that are cloud based, that is going to be machine-to-machine based architecture. The big question is what is QNX worth? Black Berry can't base its entire turnaround on QNX, but rest a assured the car platform will play a key role. Strategically, QNX---along with the enterprise unit---may be the most valuable things at Black Berry. Hands on with Apple i OS 7.1: What's new? (pictures)Apple releases i OS 7.1 for i Phone, i Pad with bug fixes, new features Apple takes Siri for a spin with launch of Car Play, hands-free software for drivers Apple and Black Berry have had a long-standing partnership on QNX as a way to connect i OS to in-car systems. In many respects, QNX serves as a middleware layer for in-car infotainment. News surfaced last week that Apple's Car Play, which launched with i OS 7.1 on Monday, was based on QNX. Jefferies analyst Peter Misek references QNX in a throwaway line in a research report about Apple: Car Play is an in-car infotainment system that allows i Phone users to make calls, access maps, message, and listen to music. Apple has listed 15 auto manufacturer partners including Ferrari, Mercedes-Benz, and Volvo. The Car Play software is powered on Black Berry's QNX platform. Car Play will be available in select cars in 2014. When you look at Car Play you'd never know QNX is there. Auto manufacturers and now smartphone players will apparently control the interface and user experience. That fact may mean QNX's flexibility is even more important. Black Berry can't comment on its involvement with Apple's Car Play, but the QNX platform does specialize in connectivity to mobile devices. QNX, acquired by Black Berry (then Research in Motion) in 2010, provides operating systems, software development tools and engineering services for everything from autos to appliances to medical devices and control systems. QNX has more than 40 automakers---Acura, Audi, BMW, Chrysler, Ford, GM, Honda, Hyundai, Jaguar, Mercedes, Land Rover Range Rover, Porsche, Toyota, Volkswagen---in the fold. A look at the QNX stack reveals how hard it would be to totally cut Black Berry's subsidiary out of the car entertainment ecosystem. Rest assured QNX will stick around and even thrive. Why? QNX is the Switzerland that the auto industry needs to preserve margins, deliver value added services, customize the experience and keep smartphone players from dominating. If that Switzerland role can be cultivated in other verticals such as appliances (where Android wants to be everywhere) and medical devices, QNX may indeed by Black Berry's crown jewel. Related Topics: Apple Cloud Big Data Analytics Innovation Tech and Work Collaboration0
592599	what causes the feeling of being off balance	D1243625	Why Do I Constantly Feel Off Balance?	Why Do I Constantly Feel Off Balance? Many people suffer from a balance disorder that makes them feel off balance, dizzy, or unsteady. A balance disorder is a condition in which one experiences a sensation of spinning, moving, or floating even if one is just lying down or standing still. It can happen anytime and anywhere. It may occur in episodes or may persist for extended periods. Sometimes it is associated with other symptoms, such as nausea, ringing in the ears, blurring of vision, or faintness. These symptoms can be quite alarming, so people might experience confusion, anxiety, and panic attacks as a result. A balance disorder may be caused by a health condition or a problem involving the brain or inner ear, or some medications. Typical Causes of Balance Disorder: Inner Ear, Brain, etc. The body maintains balance with the combined efforts of different body systems, including the eyes, inner ears, proprioceptive receptors, and the brain. Any condition that affects one or more of these may cause a balance disorder or the feeling of being off balance. Causes Related to the Ear Vertigo, or a feeling of spinning, may be brought about by disturbances to the inner ear. This part of the balance system informs the brain about changes in your head's movements related to gravity. When this system is affected, vertigo, dizziness, nausea, and vomiting may be experienced. Causes of vertigo related to the inner ear include: Benign Paroxysmal Positional Vertigo (BPPV) is due to the detachment of small particles that are located in the inner ear, inhibiting normal functioning. Dizziness and spinning sensations may be intense and can occur suddenly when you move your head or roll out of bed. This may come and go and can recur for many years without treatment. Inner ear infection or labyrinthitis may be caused by a virus or bacterial infection that leads to inflammation. This causes vertigo, ringing in the ear (tinnitus), nausea, vomiting, and hearing loss. People with this condition often experience anxiety and panic attacks. Treatment may include medications like prochloperazine and vestibular rehabilitation therapy (VRT). Meniere's disease is a condition in which you experiences vertigo, nausea and vomiting, unilateral or bilateral hearing loss, tinnitus, and hearing loss. Some experience jerky eye movements (nystagmus) and others have a drop attack, in which they suddenly fall down. These symptoms usually occur consecutively and vertigo may last for many hours. To relieve symptoms, you must consume a diet that is low in salt and avoid smoking and alcohol ingestion. Perilymph fistula involves the leakage of fluid from the inner ear to the middle ear, which may be caused by trauma, changes in ear pressure, chronic ear infection, ear surgery, or physical exertion. Besides dizziness, a person may experience unsteadiness while standing or walking, which is worsened by physical activity and improved with rest. Causes Related to the Brain Conditions in the brain may also be attributed to feeling off balance and vertigo: Age-related or degenerative change in balance function is one of the most common causes of balance disorders characterized by vertigo. However, this may be due to other causes related to aging such as arteriosclerosis, which is the hardening and narrowing of the arteries that supply blood to the brain. A stroke, which is due to the disturbance of blood flow to the brain, may also cause dizziness and loss of balance. These degenerative changes may be associated with weakness and difficulty in standing and walking. Trauma to the head is another possible cause of dizziness and loss of inner ear function. Depending on the site of trauma, the person may experience headaches, ringing in the ear, nausea, and vomiting. Medical consultation is required to diagnose and treat possible skull fracture and concussion. Infections involving the brain such as meningitis, encephalitis, and brain abscess can cause dizziness and balance problems. These can also cause fever, nausea, vomiting, nystagmus, and blurred vision. Meningitis involves inflammation of the covering of the brain and may cause neck stiffness and inability to tolerate light or loud noises. With encephalitis, there is inflammation of the brain that can also lead to convulsions or seizures, tremors, and hallucinations. A brain abscess may result from infections in the ear, sinuses, or other parts of the body. Aside from dizziness, nausea, and vomiting, you may experience headache, confusion, drowsiness, seizures, and weakness. Medical consultation is required to diagnose and treat the problem. Migraines can cause vertigo and are known as vestibular migraine or migrainous vertigo. Symptoms include episodes of vertigo, typical migraine headaches, inability to tolerate light or sound, and experiencing visual or non-visual auras. Auras are perception of strange light, smell, or sensations that precede migraines. Motion sickness occurs when one travels in a vehicle (car/boat/plane) and feels sick, dizzy, and nauseous. It may be relieved by taking a medication like Dramamine and by looking out of the window while traveling. Other Causes Other conditions like low blood pressure, diabetes, and intake of various medications can cause the feeling of being off balance. Low blood pressure can often occur with common symptoms such as light-headedness and unsteadiness. A decrease in blood pressure may result in lack of blood flow to the brain. It may occur due to bleeding, thyroid problems, infections, or allergies. Medical attention is often necessary to diagnose the specific cause before treatment is given. Proper diet, lifestyle changes, and medications can help normalize blood pressure levels. Diabetic neuropathy or nerve damage related to diabetes occurs due to chronic increases in blood sugar levels. Symptoms include low blood pressure, loss of balance upon sudden standing, and dizziness. Diagnosis depends on blood sugar levels and clinical evaluation. Treatment aims at decreasing blood glucose levels, taking proper diet, diabetes medications, regular exercise, and blood sugar monitoring. Medications such as those used for high blood pressure, sedatives, and antihistamines can cause side effects such as dizziness and loss of balance. Sometimes this is be associated with drowsiness, nausea, and vomiting. These can therefore not be used if planning to travel or operate machinery. Recommendations There are many possible causes of balance disorders. If you think that it is a minor episode, such as motion sickness, you may try one of the remedies suggested, such as avoiding travel or sitting next to a window. Otherwise you may need to go to a doctor to have a proper evaluation, diagnosis, and treatment. For example, if the cause of vertigo and accompanying symptoms is an infection, then you may need a prescription for antibiotics. In most cases of a balance disorder that is related to inner ear problems, vestibular rehabilitation exercises are used to treat the associated symptoms. These are simple exercises that combine head, eye, and body exercises to decrease dizziness and nausea. A therapist can even help you perform these at home. To prevent injuries from dizziness, do not walk in the dark, wear low heels or walking shoes, use a cane, or if necessary, a walker. Ask your doctor if it is safe for you to drive.
602599	what county is ashtabula in	D1360602	Ashtabula County Auditor Office	Ashtabula County Auditor Office Home Government Administration Offices Auditor Offices Ohio Ashtabula County Find Ashtabula County Ohio auditor offices. Auditors provide information on government auditing standards, internal audits, financials, budgets, debt, spending, accounting, operations, compliance and performance. Ashtabula Auditor 4717 Main Avenue Ashtabula OH 44004440-992-7107Auditor Offices Near Me Use My Location Auditor Offices by City Ashtabula Auditor Offices by County Lake County Geauga County Crawford County Trumbull County Mercer County About Auditor Offices How does an Auditor select an agency or program to audit? An Auditor may take a systematic approach by auditing all agencies or programs on a predetermined schedule, for example, one departmental audit per year. Alternatively, an audit may be initiated as a result of a specific question or issue that has been raised about an agency or program. Does every government entity have an Auditor? Every state has a department responsible for the audit function, though their responsibilities vary. In some states, separate departments or offices are responsible for different types of audits, such as performance audits, investigative audits, and financial audits. The U. S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) is the federal audit agency, though many federal agencies also have their own audit office. Many, but not all, county and local governments have an audit office. Who appoints the Auditor? At the state level, auditors may be elected or appointed by the legislature. County and local Auditors may be elected or appointed by either the legislative body or by a separate committee with oversight or audit authority. Ashtabula County Government Administration Offices Archives Auditor Office Bar Association Board Of Elections City Council City Manager Civil Service Commission Clerk Office Commissioner DMV GSA Office Marriage License Office Mayor Office Passport Office Town & City Hall All Ashtabula County Government Administration Offices All Ashtabula County Government Offices Ashtabula County People Search Records Birth Records Search Death Records Search Divorce Records Search Genealogy Search Marriage Records Search Vital Records Search All Ashtabula County Public Records
609230	what county is maytown washington	D1286405	Maytown (in Thurston County, WA) Populated Place Profile	Real Estate Resources New Homes For Sale Near Maytown Thurston County Land, Farms, & Ranches Maytown ( GNIS FID: 1533530) is a populated place located in Thurston County at latitude 46.898 and longitude -122.943. The elevation of Maytown is 210 feet. Maytown appears on the Maytown U. S. Geological Survey Map. Thurston County is in the Pacific Time Zone (UTC -8 hours). Thurston County : Cities & Towns | ZIP Codes | Features ( airports, churches, hospitals, etc. )EXTREMELY LOCAL Demographic Data Address Based Hyperlocal Data Input an address and get data & demographics for the pertinent census block group (CBG), a searchable map and a customized directory. The CBG is the smallest geographical unit used by the Census Bureau for reporting demographic data. Map Data Terms of Use Search the map for: BIG Map | Driving Directions | Data Source - USGS GNIS FID: 1533530BOUNDARY MAPS: Olympia West Division | Thurston County Nearby Cities, Towns & Census Designated Places Tenino, WA (5.1 miles ESE) Bucoda, WA (7.6 miles SSE) Tumwater, WA (7.7 miles NNE) Grand Mound, WA (8.2 miles SSW) Rochester, WA (9 miles SW) Olympia, WA (9.9 miles NNE) Lacey, WA (11 miles NNE) Fords Prairie, WA (11.4 miles S) Rainier, WA (12.1 miles E) Centralia, WA (12.5 miles S)Nearby Neighborhoods, Subdivisions & Other Small Populated Places Littlerock, WA (3.6 miles W)South Union, WA (3.6 miles NNE)Plumb, WA (4.5 miles ENE)Sunnydale, WA (4.5 miles S)Chain Hill, WA (4.7 miles ESE)Offutt Lake, WA (5.6 miles E)Belmore, WA (6.3 miles N)Mima, WA (6.3 miles WSW)Bush, WA (6.4 miles NNE)Bordeaux, WA (6.4 miles W)Washington Research Tools Evaluate Demographic Data Cities, ZIP Codes, & Neighborhoods Quick & Easy Methods! Research Neighborhoods Home Values, School Zones & Diversity Instant Data Access!Review Boundary Maps Cities, Towns & Schools Authoritative Data Sources! Rank Cities, Towns & ZIP Codes by Population, Income & Diversity Sorted by Highest or Lowest!Maps & Driving Directions to Physical, Cultural & Historic Features Get Information Now!! Research Public Schools School Zone Maps, Students/Teachers Get Information Now!Washington Census Data Comparison Tool Compare Washington Census Data Data: Population Population Density Diversity Index Average Household Income Per Capita Income Locations: Cites & Towns Counties ZIP Codes Highest or Lowest: Show Highest Values Show Lowest Values Results: Show 20 Results Show 200 Results
610535	what county is noxon mt in	D3150924	NOXON, SANDERS COUNTY, GLACIER COUNTRY, MONTANA LAND FOR SALE: 1 - 15 of 46 listings	NOXON, SANDERS COUNTY, GLACIER COUNTRY, MONTANA LAND FOR SALE: 1 - 15 of 46 listings SORT BY: Agents: Add your listings >5 Acres Other, Sanders County, MT $1,750,0005 Acres Other, Sanders County, MT $1,750,000This is THE BIGHORN LODGE. A true Montana legend. Here's your chance to own a piece of Montana history. Situated on 550 feet of the word famous fly fishing Bull River. Lodge offers a turn key opportunity to continue the lodge experience for your group or a secluded get away ... Save Property Visit Visit Website KEVIN WETHERELLListed by KEVIN WETHERELL Clearwater Montana Properties40 Acres Other, Sanders County, MT $600,00040 Acres Other, Sanders County, MT $600,000Water, water everywhere! Enjoy the large pond fed by 2 flowing springs, running into a year round stream, which empties into the Cabinet Gorge Reservoir. This postcard worthy, parked out 40+/-acre property also has Avista owned water frontage. Multiple building sites & has... Save Property Visit Visit Website KEVIN WETHERELLListed by KEVIN WETHERELL Clearwater Montana Properties20 Acres Other, Sanders County, MT $170,00020 Acres Other, Sanders County, MT $170,000This 20 acre parcel gives you privacy, but is just 10 min to Noxon. Live an off-grid lifestyle without being to far away. This home is primed with plumbing, electric & is generator ready. This makes it easy to create a cabin for year-round living or use this as a guest... Save Property Visit Visit Website KEVIN WETHERELLListed by KEVIN WETHERELL Clearwater Montana Properties5 Acres Noxon, Sanders County, MT $1,750,0005 Acres Noxon, Sanders County, MT $1,750,000Welcome to the Bighorn Lodge magnificently situated in the Bull River Valley in Noxon, Montana. This turn key lodge is located on the Bull River with epic Montana views. This is THE BIGHORN LODGE. A true Montana legend. Here is your chance to own a piece of Montana... Save Property Clearwater Properties Listed by Clearwater Properties Clearwater Properties12 Acres Noxon, Sanders County, MT $525,00012 Acres Noxon, Sanders County, MT $525,000Fly fishing paradise! 12 acres with Bull River frontage! This prime fishing area is surrounded by National Forest and majestic mountains in all directions. Secluded and quiet, with abundant wildlife. Low maintenance Cedar sided, one level home with 2 bedrooms, bonus room, 2 ... Save Property Clearwater Properties Listed by Clearwater Properties Clearwater Properties12 Acres Noxon, Sanders County, MT $525,00012 Acres Noxon, Sanders County, MT $525,000Fly fishing paradise! 12 acres with Bull River frontage! This prime fishing area is surrounded by National Forest and majestic mountains in all directions. Secluded and quiet, with abundant wildlife. Low maintenance Cedar sided, one level home with 2 bedrooms, bonus room, 2 ... Save Property Clearwater Properties Listed by Clearwater Properties Clearwater Properties27.8 Acres Noxon, Sanders County, MT $599,00027.8 Acres Noxon, Sanders County, MT $599,000A unique property with rich history and views of large pond, trees and mountains. Family compound, campground, investment, rental income . . .the possibilities are endless on this 27.8 acre parcel with 3 homes, and numerous outbuildings. Quick, easy access off Hwy 200,... Save Property Clearwater Properties Listed by Clearwater Properties Clearwater Properties40 Acres Noxon, Sanders County, MT $600,00040 Acres Noxon, Sanders County, MT $600,000Postcard worthy 40 acre property with a large pond fed by two springs the flow into a year-round stream that them empties into the Cabinet Gorge Reservoir. Excellent fishing and abundant wildlife. Water, water, everywhere! Enjoy the large pond fed by 2 flowing springs,... Save Property Clearwater Properties Listed by Clearwater Properties Clearwater Properties2.5 Acres Noxon, Sanders County, MT $150,0002.5 Acres Noxon, Sanders County, MT $150,000Escape to magnificent Northwest Montana with this secluded, 2.5 acre property with a cabin and water frontage. total privacy and end of the road seclusion what you seek? This cabin is just for you! Situated in the center of recreation in NW Montana, this 160 ft. of Avista ... Save Property Clearwater Properties Listed by Clearwater Properties Clearwater Properties2.41 Acres Noxon, Sanders County, MT $129,9002.41 Acres Noxon, Sanders County, MT $129,900Enjoy the Montana lifestyle on this waterfront property. Abundant water everywhere! Avista owned water frontage and a spring fed stream make this a water paradise! Cedar trees dot the property, opening to gorgeous views of the Cabinet Gorge reservoir and surrounding... Save Property Clearwater Properties Listed by Clearwater Properties Clearwater Properties41.65 Acres Noxon, Sanders County, MT $600,00041.65 Acres Noxon, Sanders County, MT $600,000Water, water, everywhere! Enjoy the large pond fed by 2 flowing springs, running into a year round stream, which empties into the Cabinet Gorge... Save Property2.66 Acres Noxon, Sanders County, MT $64,5002.66 Acres Noxon, Sanders County, MT $64,500Commercial or Residential use on this 2.66 +/- acres, on the West end of Noxon. Beautiful views of the Cabinet Gorge Reservoir and the surrounding... Save Property2.69 Acres Noxon, Sanders County, MT $64,5002.69 Acres Noxon, Sanders County, MT $64,500Some of the best views in the Clark Fork River valley await your dream home on this 2.29+/- acres of level building sites. Driveway is in , Perc test is... Save Property4 Acres Noxon, Sanders County, MT $54,5004 Acres Noxon, Sanders County, MT $54,500Fabulous 4+/- acre view parcel, close to town but quiet and private. Driveway is in leading to a level building site. Abundant wildlife and close to water ... Save Property3.75 Acres Noxon, Sanders County, MT $149,0003.75 Acres Noxon, Sanders County, MT $149,0003.75+/- ACRES WITH 230+ FEET OF BULL RIVER FRONTAGE! Unfinished new 1.5 story cabin 900 square feet. Views of Bull River & surrounding mtns from cabin.... Save Property1 2 | 3 | 4 | Next Glacier Country Region, MT Land Specialists Craig Siphers & Bob Fifield Exit Realty Montana Montana406-360-9108Email Me Visit My Website View Listings We specialize in Montana farms, ranches, hunting land and country estates Experienced Buyer's Brokers find and negotiate on the buyer's behalf. Save countless hours and thousands of dollars by using Bob and Craig. Bob Fifield has spent 4 decades immersed in the agricultural community with degrees in agriculture and past CEO of the largest cooperatives in Kansas and Nebraska. Craig Siphers has proven himself to be an adept negotiator bringing two generations of real estate experience to the table. Craig's 30 years of active real estate experience benefits his clients enormously. Call them to help you with the search and seal the deal for less. Noxon, Sanders County, Montana Land for Sale Looking for rural homes and land for sale in Noxon, Sanders County, Montana? Land Watch.com has thousands of rural properties in Noxon, Sanders County, Montana, including hunting & fishing properties, cabins, Land for sale and land auctions. Choose from small acreage lots to massive 500+ acre estates. You can also find Noxon, Sanders County, Montana real estate agents who specialize in land and rural retreats. Sign up for our Noxon, Sanders County, Montana email alerts and never miss out on a new listing again!
61082	calories in turkey burger with bun	D3006422	Turkey Burger with Condiments and Vegetables on Bun	Food database and calorie counter Source: Generic Turkey Burger with Condiments and Vegetables on Bun Nutrition Facts Serving Size: 1 hamburger Amount Per Serving Calories from Fat 114Calories 242% Daily Values*Total Fat 12.69g 20 %Saturated Fat 2.631g 13 %Polyunsaturated Fat 5.19g Monounsaturated Fat 3.84g Cholesterol 44mg 15 %Sodium 400mg 17 %Potassium 203mg Total Carbohydrate 16.85g 6 %Dietary Fiber 0.9g 4 %Sugars 3.53g Protein 14.38g Vitamin A 3% Vitamin C 4%Calcium 5% Iron 10%* Percent Daily Values are based on a 2000 calorie diet. Your daily values may be higher or lower depending on your calorie needs.12% of RDI* (242 calories)Calorie Breakdown: Carbohydrate (28%) Fat (48%) Protein (24%)* Based on a RDI of 2000 calories What is my Recommended Daily Intake (RDI)? Photos+Submit Photo Nutrition summary: Calories242Fat12.69g Carbs16.85g Protein14.38g There are 242 calories in 1 Turkey Burger with Condiments and Vegetables on Bun. Calorie breakdown: 48% fat, 28% carbs, 24% protein. Common Serving Sizes: Serving Size Calories1 oz 63100 g 2221 hamburger 242Related Types of Burgers: Cheeseburger (Single Patty with Condiments)Hamburger (Double Patty with Condiments)Veggie Burgers Hamburger (Single Patty with Condiments)Cheeseburger with Bacon and Condiments Large Hamburger with Condiments and Vegetablesview more burgers nutritional info See Also: Turkey Breast Meat and Skin Turkey Breast Meat (Fryer-Roasters)Turkey Breast Meat Turkey Vegetable Soup (with Equal Volume Water, Canned)Vegetable Soup (with Equal Volume Water, Canned)view more results Contains these Ingredients:29 g Hamburger or hotdog rolls41 g Ground Turkey (Cooked)6 g Iceberg lettuce (includes crisphead types)4 g Onions11 g Red tomatoes4 g Ketchup7 g Dill cucumber pickles8 g Soybean oil mayonnaise0.1 g Salt Food Search Add this item to my food diarydate:meal:name:amount: Save Refresh Cancel Other Recently Popular Foods: Granite City Bison Burger on Pretzel Bun Mc Donald's Grand Mac (No Cheese)Shop Rite Big & Juicy Hamburgers Earth Grown Vegan Veggie Burger HEB Cowboy Bacon Burger Hello Fresh Crispy Frico Cheeseburgers Snap Kitchen Sweet Potato Black Bean Sliders Earth Grown Asian Veggie Burger Red Robin The Madlove Burger Burger King Bacon King Jr Please note that some foods may not be suitable for some people and you are urged to seek the advice of a physician before beginning any weight loss effort or diet regimen. Although the information provided on this site is presented in good faith and believed to be correct, Fat Secret makes no representations or warranties as to its completeness or accuracy and all information, including nutritional values, is used by you at your own risk. All trademarks, copyright and other forms of intellectual property are property of their respective owners.
611696	what county is punta gorda,fl in	D90702	Charlotte County, Florida	"Charlotte County, Florida From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedianavigation search Charlotte County, Florida County Charlotte County The Charlotte County Courthouse at Punta Gorda in April 2010. Seal Location in the U. S. state of Florida Florida's location in the U. S. Founded April 23, 1921Named for Charlotte Harbor Seat Punta Gorda Largest community Port Charlotte Area• Total 858 sq mi (2,222 km 2)• Land 680 sq mi (1,761 km 2)• Water 178 sq mi (461 km 2 ), 20.7%Population (est. )• ( 2015) 173,115• Density 235/sq mi (91/km 2)Congressional district 17th Time zone Eastern: UTC−5 / −4Website www .charlottecountyfl .gov Charlotte County is a county located in the U. S. state of Florida. As of the 2010 census, the population was 159,978. [1] Its county seat is Punta Gorda. [2]Charlotte County comprises the Punta Gorda, FL Metropolitan Statistical Area, which is included in the North Port - Sarasota, FL Combined Statistical Area. Contents1 History1.1 Historic places2 Geography2.1 Adjacent counties2.2 National protected area3 Demographics4 Government and politics4.1 Voter Registration5 Economy5.1 Top employers6 Education7 Library8 Communities8.1 City8.2 New city8.3 Census-designated places8.4 Other unincorporated communities9 Transportation9.1 Airports10 See also11 References12 External links History [ edit]Charlotte County was established April 23, 1921. It was named for the Bay of Charlotte Harbor. ""Charlotte"" came from ""Carlota"" (Spanish). In 1565, the Spanish named ""Bahia de Carlota,"" followed by the English in 1775 who named the area Charlotte Harbor in tribute to the Queen Charlotte Sophia, wife of King George III. Punta Gorda is the only incorporated city in Charlotte County. On August 13, 2004 Charlotte County was devastated when Hurricane Charley came ashore near Port Charlotte as a Category 4 hurricane. Historic places [ edit]Historic places in Charlotte County include the Old Charlotte County Courthouse as well as those on the List of Registered Historic Places in Charlotte County. Geography [ edit]According to the U. S. Census Bureau, the county has a total area of 858 square miles (2,220 km 2 ), of which 680 square miles (1,800 km 2) is land and 178 square miles (460 km 2) (20.7%) is water. [3] Charlotte Harbor Estuary is an important natural preserve and one of the most productive in Florida. Adjacent counties [ edit]Sarasota County - northwest De Soto County - north Highlands County - northeast Glades County - east Hendry County - southeast Lee County - south National protected area [ edit]Island Bay National Wildlife Refuge Demographics [ edit]Historical population Census Pop. %±1930 4,013 —1940 3,663 −8.7%1950 4,286 17.0%1960 12,594 193.8%1970 27,559 118.8%1980 58,460 112.1%1990 110,975 89.8%2000 141,627 27.6%2010 159,978 13.0%Est. 2016 178,465 [4] 11.6%U. S. Decennial Census [5] 1790-1960 [6] 1900-1990 [7] 1990-2000 [8] 2010-2015 [1]As of the census [9] of 2010, there were 159,978 people, 73,370 households, and 44,130 families residing in the county. The population density was 234 people per square mile (79/km²). There were 100,632 housing units at an average density of 115 per square mile (44/km²). The racial makeup of the county was 90.05% White, 5.68% Black or African American, 0.26% Native American, 1.19% Asian, 0.04% Pacific Islander, 1.10% from other races, and 1.67% from two or more races. 5.76% of the population were Hispanic or Latino of any race. 92.3% spoke only English at home. 3.0% of the population spoke Spanish at home and 1.1% French. There were 73,370 households out of which 17.66% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 59.20% were married couples living together, 7.20% had a female householder with no husband present, and 30.90% were non-families. 26.00% of all households were made up of individuals and 16.70% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.18 and the average family size was 2.56. In the county, the population was spread out with 14.30% under the age of 18, 5.38% from 18 to 24, 6.99% from 25 to 34, 17.50% from 35 to 64, and 34.12% who are 65 years of age or older (making this the county with the highest percentage of people over 65 in America). The median age is 56.43 years. For every 100 females there were 94.58 males. The median income for a household (2007-2011) in the county was $45,112; median income for families (2007-2011) was $47,415. Males (2011) had a median income of $27,352 versus $26,861 for females. The per capita income for the county was $28,875. About 5.30% of families and 11.9% of the population were below the poverty line, including 17.40% of those under age 18 and 5.60% of those age 65 or over. According to an October 2001 Census Brief of the 2000 Census, Charlotte County had the highest median age of any U. S. county with a population of more than 100,000 people at 54.3. [10] The median age in 2010 for Charlotte County was 55.9 years, second only to Sumter County in Florida. Government and politics [ edit]Charlotte County Jail front entrance The county is governed by a five-person Commission, all of them elected to represent districts within the county for a four-year term. The elections are partisan according to political party affiliation and primaries are held months earlier in the event there are numerous candidates. All registered voters in the county are allowed to vote for a candidate Commissioner in each the five districts, not just the voters living in a particular district. The five current Commissioners for Charlotte County, Florida and terms of office expirations: Ken Doherty (R), District 1, November 8, 2016Christopher Constance (R), District 2, November 6, 2018Bill Truex (R) District 3, November 3, 2020Stephen R. Deutsch (R) District 4, November 6, 2018Joe Tiseo (R) District 5, November 3, 2020Charlotte County, as is typical for the southwestern Florida coast, became and remained a solidly Republican county in the years following the Second World War. No Democrat has won the county since Lyndon Johnson did so during his 1964 landslide, [11] with only Bill Clinton in 1992 and 1996 not being outvoted by an absolute majority due to the appeal of Ross Perot. Charlotte resisted George Wallace in the 1968 election to still return an absolute Republican majority, unlike several neighbouring counties. Presidential Election Results [12]Year Republican Democratic Third parties2016 61.96% 60,218 34.41% 33,445 3.63% 3,5242012 56.52% 47,996 42.28% 35,906 1.20% 1,0212008 52.87% 45,205 45.65% 39,031 1.48% 1,2632004 55.68% 44,428 42.93% 34,256 1.38% 1,1022000 52.96% 35,428 44.31% 29,646 2.73% 1,8261996 44.18% 27,847 43.03% 27,121 12.79% 8,0591992 39.17% 24,311 36.91% 22,907 23.92% 14,8461988 63.98% 28,893 35.37% 15,974 0.65% 2921984 70.85% 27,486 29.14% 11,305 0.01% 21980 64.62% 20,486 30.82% 9,769 4.56% 1,4451976 54.44% 12,703 44.14% 10,300 1.41% 3301972 76.64% 12,888 23.04% 3,874 0.33% 551968 50.58% 6,056 30.46% 3,647 18.96% 2,2701964 46.29% 4,163 53.71% 4,8311960 60.92% 3,026 39.08% 1,9411956 63.11% 1,589 36.89% 9291952 58.79% 1,134 41.21% 7951948 44.09% 559 41.01% 520 14.90% 1891944 33.86% 404 66.14% 7891940 30.90% 407 69.10% 9101936 41.20% 548 58.80% 7821932 29.33% 396 70.67% 9541928 55.73% 593 41.45% 441 2.82% 301924 31.21% 167 60.00% 321 8.79% 47Voter Registration [ edit]Voter Registration and Party Membership as of August 31, 2017 [13]Party Number of Votes Percentage Republican 58,599 44.44%Democratic 36,774 27.89%Independent 35,955 27.27%Third Parties 539 0.41%Total 131,867 100.0%Economy [ edit]Top employers [ edit]The top private employers of Charlotte County are as follows: [14] 1. Publix Super Markets, Inc. (1,665) 2. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (1,500) 3. St Joseph Preferred Healthcare Inc. (1,400) 4. Millennium Physician Group, LLC (1,326) 5. Punta Gorda/Port Charlotte Hma, Inc. (1,080) 6. Fawcett Memorial Hospital (895) 7. Palm Motor Cars Company (595) 8. Sun Coast Media Group (493) 9. Winn-Dixie Stores, Inc. (474) 10. Home Depot U. S. A., Inc. (450) 11. Tidewell Hospice, Inc. (400) 12. Seabreeze Electric, Inc. (329) 13. Smugglers Enterprises Inc. (275) 14. Supermedia LLC (254) 15. Walgreen Co. (253) 16. Mc Donald's (245) 17. Punta Gorda Associates (230) 18. Port Charlotte Rehabilitation Center (205) 19. Douglas T Jacobson State Veterans Home (200) 20. Sam's West, Inc. (200)Education [ edit]Florida South Western State College maintains a campus in the county. Southern Technical College operates a campus in the county. Charlotte County Public Schools administers all public schools from kindergarten through twelfth grade. Western Michigan University operates a regional location in the county. [15]Library [ edit]The Charlotte County Library System consists of 4 library branches. [16]Port Charlotte Public Library Punta Gorda Public Library Englewood Charlotte Public Library Mid-County Regional Library The erection of the first library was in 1963. [17] In 1976, Charlotte County and Glades County joined to make the Charlotte-Glades Library System. One reason the counties paired together was due to the additional $50,000 in state aid to libraries who join together to serve the public. Charlotte County was financially responsible in the relationship. In 2008 the two counties separated and reverted to providing services to residents and visitors of their own communities. [18] The newest addition to the library system was an expansion to the Englewood Branch; the new building created is an additional 6,500 square feet. This provides more space for the youth services department, a new computer lab, and an archives run by the historical department. [19]Communities [ edit]City [ edit]Punta Gorda New city [ edit]Babcock Ranch, a proposed solar-powered city Census-designated places [ edit]Charlotte Harbor Charlotte Park Cleveland Englewood Grove City Harbour Heights Manasota Key Port Charlotte Rotonda Solana Other unincorporated communities [ edit]Adrian Town Boca Grande Cape Haze Deep Creek Murdock Placida Transportation [ edit]Airports [ edit]Punta Gorda Airport (Florida)See also [ edit]Southwest Florida National Register of Historic Places listings in Charlotte County, Florida References [ edit]^ a b ""State & County Quick Facts"". United States Census Bureau. Retrieved June 13, 2014.^ ""Find a County"". National Association of Counties. Archived from the original on 2011-05-31. Retrieved 2011-06-07.^ ""US Gazetteer files: 2010, 2000, and 1990"". United States Census Bureau. 2011-02-12. Retrieved 2011-04-23.^ ""Population and Housing Unit Estimates"". Retrieved June 9, 2017.^ ""U. S. Decennial Census"". United States Census Bureau. Archived from the original on May 12, 2015. Retrieved June 13, 2014.^ ""Historical Census Browser"". University of Virginia Library. Retrieved June 13, 2014.^ ""Population of Counties by Decennial Census: 1900 to 1990"". United States Census Bureau. Retrieved June 13, 2014.^ ""Census 2000 PHC-T-4. Ranking Tables for Counties: 1990 and 2000"" (PDF). United States Census Bureau. Retrieved June 13, 2014.^ ""American Fact Finder"". United States Census Bureau. Archived from the original on 2013-09-11. Retrieved 2011-05-14.^ [1] Last accessed November 16, 2012.^ Sullivan, Robert David; ‘How the Red and Blue Map Evolved Over the Past Century’; America Magazine in The National Catholic Review; June 29, 2016^ David Leip’s Atlas of U. S. Presidential Elections; 2016 Presidential General Election Data Graphs – Florida by County (and earlier election years)^ ""Archived copy"". Archived from the original on 2016-10-24. Retrieved 2016-10-24.^http://floridasinnovationcoast.com/site_selection/major_employers CC Employers^ wmich.edu/puntagorda^ http://www2.youseemore.com/charlottecounty/^ Charlotte County Government. Charlotte County Weekly Department Highlights. Retrieved From: http://www.charlottecountyfl.gov/dept.admin/Documents/Highlights20131022.pdf [ permanent dead link]^ Charlotte County Government. Charlotte-Glades Library System Long-Range Plan of Service. Web. Retrieved From: http://www2.charlottefl.com/Novus Agenda/Attachment Viewer.ashx?^ Sweet Sparkman Architects. Englewood Charlotte Library. Web. Retrieved From: http://www.sweetsparkman.com/projects/master-planning/External links [ edit]Wikimedia Commons has media related to Charlotte County, Florida. Charlotte County Government / Board of County Commissioners Main Portal Charlotte County Chamber of Commerce Places adjacent to Charlotte County, Florida Sarasota County De Soto County Highlands County Gulf of Mexico Charlotte County, Florida Glades County Lee County Hendry Countyv t e Municipalities and communities of Charlotte County, Florida, United States County seat: Punta Gorda City Punta Gorda CDPs Charlotte Harbor Charlotte Park Cleveland Englewood ‡ Grove City Harbour Heights Manasota Key Port Charlotte Rotonda Solana Unincorporated communities El Jobean Placida Deep Creek Ghost town Bermont Footnotes ‡This populated place also has portions in an adjacent county or countiesv t e State of Florida Tallahassee (capital)Topics Climate Congressional districts Delegations Environment Geology Government Law Media Newspapers Radio TVSymbols Flag Seal Tourist attractions Transportation Seal of Florida History Timeline Spanish Florida British Rule East Florida West Florida Florida Territory Seminole Wars Slavery Civil War Geography Everglades Lake Okeechobee State forests State parks Society Floridians Culture Crime Demographics Economy Education Indigenous peoples Politics Sports Regions Big Bend Central Florida Emerald Coast First Coast Florida Heartland Florida Keys Florida Panhandle Forgotten Coast Glades Gold Coast Halifax area Nature Coast North Central Florida North Florida South Florida Southwest Florida Space Coast Suncoast Tampa Bay Area Treasure Coast Metro areas Cape Coral–Fort Myers Deltona–Daytona Beach–Ormond Beach Fort Walton Beach–Crestview–Destin Gainesville Jacksonville Lakeland–Winter Haven Miami–Fort Lauderdale–Pompano Beach Naples–Marco Island North Port–Bradenton–Sarasota Ocala Orlando–Kissimmee–Sanford Palm Bay–Melbourne–Titusville West Palm Beach-Boca Raton Panama City–Lynn Haven–Panama City Beach Pensacola–Ferry Pass–Brent Port St. Lucie Punta Gorda Sebastian–Vero Beach Tallahassee Tampa-St. Petersburg–Clearwater Largest cities Jacksonville Miami Tampa Orlando St. Petersburg Hialeah Tallahassee Port St. Lucie Fort Lauderdale West Palm Beach Cape Coral Pembroke Pines Hollywood Counties Alachua Baker Bay Bradford Brevard Broward Calhoun Charlotte Citrus Clay Collier Columbia De Soto Dixie Duval Escambia Flagler Franklin Gadsden Gilchrist Glades Gulf Hamilton Hardee Hendry Hernando Highlands Hillsborough Holmes Indian River Jackson Jefferson Lafayette Lake Lee Leon Levy Liberty Madison Manatee Marion Martin Miami‑Dade Monroe Nassau Okaloosa Okeechobee Orange Osceola Palm Beach Pasco Pinellas Polk Putnam Santa Rosa Sarasota Seminole St. Johns St. Lucie Sumter Suwannee Taylor Union Volusia Wakulla Walton Washington Coordinates: 26.90°N 81.95°WCategories: Florida counties Charter counties in Florida Charlotte County, Florida 1921 establishments in Florida Populated places established in 1921 "
615544	what criteria might be used to establish someone as an expert witness?	D2419234	Expert witness	"From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedianavigation search [ hide]This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. ( Learn how and when to remove these template messages)The examples and perspective in this article may not represent a worldwide view of the subject. (December 2010)This article needs additional citations for verification. (September 2007)Evidence Part of the common law series Types of evidence Testimony Documentary Real (physical)Digital Exculpatory Inculpatory Demonstrative Eyewitness identification Genetic (DNA) Lies Relevance Burden of proof Laying a foundation Materiality Public policy exclusions Spoliation Character Habit Similar fact Authentication Chain of custody Judicial notice Best evidence rule Self-authenticating document Ancient document Hague Evidence Convention Witnesses Competence Privilege Direct examination Cross-examination Redirect Impeachment Recorded recollection Expert witness Dead Man's Statute Hearsay and exceptionsin English law in United States law Confessions Business records Excited utterance Dying declaration Party admission Ancient document Declaration against interest Present sense impression Res gestae Learned treatise Implied assertion Other common law areas Contract Tort Property Wills, trusts and estates Criminal lawv t e An expert witness, in England, Wales and the United States, is a person whose opinion by virtue of education, training, certification, skills or experience, is accepted by the judge as an expert. The judge may consider the witness's specialized (scientific, technical or other) opinion about evidence or about facts before the court within the expert's area of expertise, referred to as an ""expert opinion"". [1] Expert witnesses may also deliver ""expert evidence"" within the area of their expertise. [2] Their testimony may be rebutted by testimony from other experts or by other evidence or facts. Contents [ hide ]1 History2 Role of expert witnesses2.1 Duties of experts2.1.1 England and Wales2.1.2 Scotland3 Types of expert witness3.1 Testifying experts3.1.1 Educating witness3.1.2 Reporting witness3.2 Non-testifying experts4 United States4.1 Scientific evidence4.1.1 Frye test4.1.2 Daubert test5 See also6 References7 Bibliography8 External links History The earliest known use of an expert witness in English law came in 1782, when a court that was hearing litigation relating to the silting-up of Wells harbour in Norfolk accepted evidence from a leading civil engineer, John Smeaton. This decision by the court to accept Smeaton's evidence is widely cited as the root of modern rules on expert evidence. However, it was still such an unusual feature in court that in 1957 in the Old Bailey, Lord Justice Patrick Devlin could describe the case of suspected serial killer Dr John Bodkin Adams thus: ""It is a most curious situation, perhaps unique in these courts, that the act of murder has to be proved by expert evidence."" [3]Role of expert witnesses Typically, experts are relied on for opinions on severity of injury, degree of sanity, cause of failure in a machine or other device, loss of earnings and associated benefits, care costs, and the like. In an intellectual property case an expert may be shown two music scores, book texts, or circuit boards and asked to ascertain their degree of similarity. In the majority of cases, the expert's personal relation to the defendant is considered and irrelevant. The tribunal itself, or the judge, can in some systems call upon experts to technically evaluate a certain fact or action, in order to provide the court with a complete knowledge on the fact/action it is judging. The expertise has the legal value of an acquisition of data. The results of these experts are then compared to those by the experts of the parties. The expert has a great responsibility, and especially in penal trials, and perjury by an expert is a severely punished crime in most countries. The use of expert witnesses is sometimes criticized in the United States because in civil trials, they are often used by both sides to advocate differing positions, and it is left up to a jury to decide which expert witness to believe. Although experts are legally prohibited from expressing their opinion of submitted evidence until after they are hired, sometimes a party can surmise beforehand, because of reputation or prior cases, that the testimony will be favorable regardless of any basis in the submitted data; such experts are commonly disparaged as ""hired guns."" [4] [5]Duties of experts In high stakes cases multiple experts, in multiple topics, are often retained by each party. Although it is still relatively rare, the court itself may also retain its own independent expert. In all cases, fees paid to an expert may not be contingent on the outcome of the case. Expert evidence is often the most important component of many civil and criminal cases today. Fingerprint examination, blood analysis, DNA fingerprinting, and forensic firearm examination are common kinds of expert evidence heard in serious criminal cases. In civil cases, the work of accident analysis, forensic engineers, and forensic accountants is usually important, the latter to assess damages and costs in long and complex cases. Intellectual property and medical negligence cases are typical examples. Electronic evidence has also entered the courtroom as critical forensic evidence. Audio and video evidence must be authenticated by both parties in any litigation by a forensic expert who is also an expert witness who assists the court in understanding details about that electronic evidence. Voice-mail recordings and closed-circuit television systems produce electronic evidence often used in litigation, more so today than in the past. Video recordings of bank robberies and audio recordings of life threats are presented in court rooms by electronic expert witnesses. England and Wales In England and Wales, under the Civil Procedure Rules 1998 (CPR), an expert witness is required to be independent and address his or her expert report to the court. A witness may be jointly instructed by both sides if the parties agree to this, especially in cases where the liability is relatively small. Under the CPR, expert witnesses may be instructed to produce a joint statement detailing points of agreement and disagreement to assist the court or tribunal. The meeting is held quite independently of instructing lawyers, and often assists in resolution of a case, especially if the experts review and modify their opinions. When this happens, substantial trial costs can be saved when the parties to a dispute agree to a settlement. In most systems, the trial (or the procedure) can be suspended in order to allow the experts to study the case and produce their results. More frequently, meetings of experts occur before trial. Experts charge a professional fee which is paid by the party commissioning the report (both parties for joint instructions) although the report is addressed to the court. The fee must not be contingent on the outcome of the case. Expert witnesses may be subpoenaed (issued with a witness summons), although this is normally a formality to avoid court date clashes. Scotland In Scots Law, Davie v Magistrates of Edinburgh (1953) provides authority that where a witness has particular knowledge or skills in an area being examined by the court, and has been called to court in order to elaborate on that area for the benefit of the court, that witness may give evidence of his/her opinion on that area. [6]Types of expert witness Testifying experts If the witness needs to testify in court, the privilege is no longer protected. The expert witness's identity and nearly all documents used to prepare the testimony will become discoverable. Usually an experienced lawyer will advise the expert not to take notes on documents because all of the notes will be available to the other party. An expert testifying in a United States federal court must satisfy the requirements of Fed. R. Evid. 702. [1] Generally, under Rule 702, an expert is a person with ""scientific, technical, or other specialized knowledge"" who can ""assist the trier of fact,"" which is typically a jury. A witness who is being offered as an expert must first establish his or her competency in the relevant field through an examination of his or her credentials. The opposing attorney is permitted to conduct a voir dire of the witness in order to challenge that witness’ qualifications. If qualified by the court, then the expert may testify ""in the form of an opinion or otherwise"" so long as: "" (1) the testimony is based upon sufficient facts or data, (2) the testimony is the product of reliable principles and methods, and (3) the witness has applied the principles and methods reliably to the facts of the case. ""Although experts can testify in any case in which their expertise is relevant, criminal cases are more likely to use forensic scientists or forensic psychologists, whereas civil cases, such as personal injury, may use forensic engineers, forensic accountants, employment consultants or care experts. Senior physicians – UK, Ireland, and Commonwealth consultants, U. S. attending physicians – are frequently used in both the civil and criminal courts. The Federal Court of Australia has issued guidelines for experts appearing in Australian courts. [7] This covers the format of the expert's written testimony as well as their behaviour in court. Similar procedures apply in non-court forums, such as the Australian Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission. [8]Educating witness The educating witness teaches the fact-finder (jury or, in a bench trial, judge) about the underlying scientific theory and instrument implementing theory. This witness is an expert witness, called to elicit opinions that a theory is valid and the instruments involved are reliable. The witness must be qualified as an expert witness, which may require academic qualifications or specific training. Reporting witness Called after teaching witness leaves stand. Usually the laboratory technician who personally conducted the test. Witness will describe both the test and the results. When describing test, will venture opinions that proper test procedures were used and that equipment was in good working order. [9]Non-testifying experts In the U. S., a party may hire experts to help them evaluate a given case. For example, a car maker may hire an experienced mechanic to decide if its cars were built to specification. This kind of expert opinion will be protected from discovery by the opposing party. In other words, if the expert finds evidence against their client, the opposite party will not automatically gain access to it. This privilege is similar to the work-product doctrine (not to be confused with attorney–client privilege ). The non-testifying expert can be present at the trial or hearing to aid the attorney in asking questions of other expert witnesses. Unlike a testifying expert, a non-testifying expert can be easily withdrawn from a case. It is also possible to change a non-testifying expert to a testifying expert before the expert disclosure date. [10]United States In the United States, under the Federal Rule of Evidence 702 (FRE), an expert witness must be qualified on the topic of testimony. In determining the qualifications of the expert, the FRE requires the expert have had specialized education, training, or practical experience in the subject matter relating to the case. [11] The expert's testimony must be based on facts in evidence, and should offer opinion about the causation or correlation to the evidence in drawing a conclusion. Experts in the U. S. typically are paid on an hourly basis for their services in investigating the facts, preparing a report, and if necessary, testifying during pre-trial discovery, or at trial. Hourly fees range from approximately $200 to $750 or more per hour, varying primarily by the expert's field of expertise, and the individual expert's qualifications and reputation. In several fields, such as handwriting analysis, where the expert compares signatures to determine the likelihood of a forgery, and medical case reviews by a physician or nurse, in which the expert goes over hospital and medical records to assess the possibility of malpractice, experts often initially charge a flat fixed fee for their initial report. As with the hourly fees discussed previously, the amount of that flat fee varies considerably based on the reviewing expert's field, experience and reputation. [12]The expert's professional fee, plus his or her related expenses, is generally paid by the party retaining the expert. In some circumstance the party who prevails in the litigation may be entitled to recover the amounts paid to its expert from the losing party. Scientific evidence In law, scientific evidence is evidence derived from scientific knowledge or techniques. Most forensic evidence, including genetic evidence, is scientific evidence. Frye test The Frye test, coming from the case Frye v. United States (1923), said that admissible scientific evidence must be a result of a theory that had ""general acceptance"" in the scientific community. This test results in uniform decisions regarding admissibility. In particular, the judges in Frye ruled that: Just when a scientific principle or discovery crosses the line between experimental and demonstrable stages is difficult to define. Somewhere in this twilight zone the evidential force of the principle must be recognized, and while courts will go a long way in admitting expert testimony deduced from a well-recognized scientific principle or discovery, the thing from which the deduction is made must be sufficiently established to have gained general acceptance in the particular field in which it belongs. [13]This test has been criticized as misunderstanding the scientific process and being based on the assumption that a jury is unable to evaluate scientific testimony. The goals of the test were to avoid evidence from overly questionable or controversial scientific theories to be used; it was used to exclude lie-detector results employed by the defense in the original case. Daubert test The Daubert test arose out of the United States Supreme Court case Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals. [14] It requires four things to be shown: That the theory is testable (has it been tested? )That the theory has been peer reviewed, (Peer reviewing usually reduces the chances of error in the theory)The reliability and error rate (100% reliability and zero error are not required, but the rates should be considered by the trial judge)The extent of general acceptance by the scientific community The Federal Rules of Evidence use the Daubert Test. See FRE 702. [15]See also Ambush defence Daubert Standard and Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals Death of an Expert Witness - a novel Employment consultant Expert shopping Forensic accountant Forensic economics Forensic engineering Forensic science Forensic psychology Forensic video analysis Frye Standard of evidence Gibson's law In limine Jones v Kaney — English caselaw abolishing witness immunity from civil action for negligence Kumho Tire Co. v. Carmichael Questioned document examination R. v. Mohan — Canadian caselaw establishing qualifications for expert witnesses Saisie-contrefaçon Ultimate issue Vehicular accident reconstruction References^ a b Federal Rules of Evidence - 2011 | Federal Evidence Review^ Black's Law Dictionary, articles ""Evidence"", ""Expert"", ""Witness""^ Cullen, Pamela V., ""A Stranger in Blood: The Case Files on Dr John Bodkin Adams"", London, Elliott & Thompson, 2006, ISBN 1-904027-19-9^ Snow, J. N., & Weed, R. (1997). Mental health forensic issues in Georgia: The role of the expert witness. Georgia Journal of Professional Counselors, 53-65.^ Snow, J. N. & Weed, R. (1996). Forensic issues in mental health: The role of the expert witness. Journal of Legal Nurse Consulting, 7 (4), 2-13.^ Davie v Magistrates of Edinburgh 1953 SC 34^ Guidelines for Expert Witnesses in Proceedings in the Federal Court of Australia, Practice Direction, (Federal Court of Australia, 2007)^ The accidental expert witness, Tom Worthington, Information Age (IDG, 2005)^ Carlson, Ronald L.; Imwinkelried, Edward J.; Kionka, Edward J. (1991). Evidence in the nineties: cases, materials, and problems for an age of science and statutes. Michie Co. ISBN 978-0-87473-740-0.^ Eri J. D., Christopher. ""What are the differences between an expert witness and a consultant non testifying expert"". Forensis Group. Retrieved 19 November 2013.^ ""Rule 702. Testimony by Expert Witnesses"". Cornell Law School. Retrieved 6 September 2017.^ Matson, Jack V. (2012). Effective Expert Witnessing, Fifth Edition: Practices for the 21st Century. CRC Press. pp. 107–110. ISBN 1466578645. Retrieved 12 December 2017.^ Frye v. United States, 293 F. 1013 (D. C. Cir. 1923).^ Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, 509 U. S. 579 (1993).^ Berger, Margaret A. (2011). ""The Admissibility of Expert Testimony"". In Federal Judicial Center; National Research Council. Reference Manual on Scientific Evidence (3rd. ed.). Washington, DC: National Academies Press. pp. 11–36. ISBN 978-0-309-21421-6. Bibliography Bronstein, DA, Law for the Expert Witness, CRC Press,2nd Ed (1999). Dwyer, D, The Judicial Assessment of Expert Evidence, Cambridge University Press (2008). Federal Judicial Center; National Research Council, eds. (2011). Reference Manual on Scientific Evidence (3rd. ed.). Washington, DC: National Academies Press. ISBN 978-0-309-21421-6. Jasanoff, Sheila, Science at the Bar: Law, Science, and Technology in America (Cambridge, Mass. : Harvard University Press, 1997). Reynolds, MP and King, PSD, The Expert Witness and his Evidence, Blackwell (1992). Smith, D, Being an Effective Expert Witness, Thames Publishing (1993). External links Expert Testimony in Federal Civil Trials: A Preliminary Analysis (pdf) (Federal Judicial Center, 2000)Project on Scientific Knowledge and Public Policy. Daubert -The Most Influential Supreme Court Ruling You've Never Heard Of (pdf)Kenton K. Yee, Dueling Experts and Imperfect Verification, 28.4 International Review of Law and Economics, 246-255 (2008)Cole, Simon A. "" Where the Rubber Meets the Road: Thinking about Expert Evidence as Expert Testimony "" ( Archive ). Villova Law Journal. Villanova University School of Law. Volume 52, Issue 4, Article 4. p. 803-840. [ hide]v t e Law Core subjects Administrative law Constitutional law Contract Criminal law Deed Equity Evidence International law Law of obligations Procedure Civil Criminal Property law Public law Restitution Statutory law Tort Other subjects Agricultural law Aviation law Banking law Bankruptcy Commercial law Competition law Conflict of laws Construction law Consumer protection Corporate law Cyberlaw Election law Energy law Entertainment law Environmental law Family law Financial regulation Health law Immigration law Intellectual property International criminal law International human rights International slavery laws Labour Law of war Legal archaeology Legal fiction Maritime law Media law Military law Probate Estate Will and testament Product liability Public international law Space law Sports law Tax law Transport law Trust law Women in law Sources of law Charter Constitution Custom Divine right Human rights Natural and legal rights Case law Precedent Law making Ballot measure Codification Decree Edict Executive order Proclamation Legislation Delegated legislation Regulation Rulemaking Promulgation Repeal Treaty Statutory law Statute Act of Parliament Act of Congress (US)Legal systems Civil law Common law Chinese law Legal pluralism Religious law Canon law Hindu law Jain law Jewish law Sharia Roman law Socialist law Statutory law Xeer Yassa Legal theory Critical legal studies Comparative law Feminist Law and economics Legal formalism History Natural law International legal theory Principle of legality Rule of law Sociology Jurisprudence Adjudication Administration of justice Criminal justice Court-martial Dispute resolution Fiqh Lawsuit/Litigation Legal opinion Legal remedy Judge Justice of the peace Magistrate Judgment Judicial review Jurisdiction Jury Justice Practice of law Attorney Barrister Counsel Lawyer Legal representation Prosecutor Solicitor Question of fact Question of law Trial Trial advocacy Trier of fact Verdict Legal institutions Bureaucracy The bar The bench Civil society Court Election commission Executive Judiciary Law enforcement Legal education Law school Legislature Military Police Political party Tribunal Category Index Outline Portal Authority control GND: 4051201-0Categories: Evidence law Forensic evidence "
615648	what culture are used for nasal mrsa	D809163	Nasal Swab Screening for Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus	"Discussion Nasal swabbing using agar culture identified two-thirds of the total MRSA carriers who were diagnosed by multiple body site screening using agar plus nutrient broth culture. Nasal swab screening combined with culture on agar is a commonly applied method for detecting MRSA carriage. It is, however, costly in terms of staff time and laboratory processing, and the sensitivity of the technique in detecting true carriers in the general patient population is poorly understood. This study sought to determine the likely true sensitivity of nasal swabbing and the effect on ascertainment of swabbing additional body sites. One of the key findings in this study was that nasal swabbing alone appears to detect only 66% of ""true-positive"" cases as assessed by the gold-standard measure (all body site swabs on chromogenic agar plus broth culture combined). There is no way of assessing how many additional cases the gold standard may have missed, so the value of 66% for nasal/chromogenic agar screening is a best-case estimate. This efficiency of identifying MRSA carriers will be further reduced in the real-time hospital environment by the documented difficulty in ensuring compliance with swabbing—observed compliance rates during the Pathfinder study [ 12] ranged from 80% at the outset to 90% during the latter stages (and then only with considerable additional input to maximize compliance in the context of the study). Therefore, a realistic estimate of 80% compliance with universal nasal swabbing would detect only approximately 53% of true MRSA carriage. This suggests that, with a strategy of universal nasal screening, almost half of true MRSA carriers would go undetected in practice. MRSA colonization was detected most frequently by nasal screening and least frequently by axilla screening. For a 2-swab approach, the combination of nasal plus perineum swabbing produced a significantly better detection rate (82.2%) than nasal swabbing alone (66.4%); nasal plus throat swabbing also produced a better detection rate than nasal swabbing alone (76.5%), but with overlapping confidence intervals. Perineal colonization is a proxy measure for rectal colonization, which is reported as being more likely to cause environmental contamination and has been associated with high dispersal. [ 15, 25] Perineal swabbing on this basis would be the site of choice for second swab screening given this propensity for transmission; however, it may be less acceptable to patients than throat screening and more demanding of staff time (patients may require assistance to undress and maneuver). Compliance with a universal 2-swab approach may thus be lower than nasal swabbing alone but could potentially be applied more rigorously to selected higher-risk groups. A broad range of individual-site detection rates are quoted in the literature and are generally higher than those in this study. [ 15, 21, 25, 26] However, there is generally no gold-standard measure of total colonization other than combined swab/agar results in these other studies, and positive results for swab/agar testing only within this study are broadly similar for nasal positives (72% [245/273] of all swab/agar isolates here, compared with 70.5% and 73.2% elsewhere); [ 23, 27] findings were similar for nasal plus throat (83.5% vs 82.2%) [ 15] and nasal plus perineal (90% vs 89.6% and 92.2%). [ 15, 17] The isolation rates described by other studies [ 18, 21, 25, 26] can be higher, but these studies vary in their population samples and detection methods. Some studies were undertaken with inpatients at a higher risk of colonization or combined clinical samples with screening samples. The actual clinical impact on infection rates of relatively inefficient detection of MRSA carriage is unknown, but the Scottish Pathfinder project [ 12] found indications of reduced MRSA infection and carriage associated with a 1-year period of universal nasal swabbing at an overall 85% compliance. A recent study [ 28] also suggests that even relatively low ascertainment of MRSA carriage may be effective. The Pathfinder study [ 12] found that approximately half of the MRSA infections diagnosed in the hospital occur in patients not recognized as being colonized on admission; those patients will be partly undiagnosed carriers and partly true negatives who acquire their colonization or infection directly or indirectly from patients who are colonized at admission. A recent Scottish study that examined the dynamics of MRSA transmission during a program of universal nasal screening and decolonization found the same overall MRSA colonization prevalence on admission and discharge of 2.9%, but it also found that 1.3% of patients who were MRSA positive on discharge had not been positive on admission. [ 29]For those admissions with indwelling devices or wounds (surgical wounds, pressure ulcers, diabetic ulcers, etc), MRSA detection is considerably improved by including clinical site swabbing in the screening strategy. Nasal swabbing alone identified only 40% of positive MRSA admissions in this subgroup, but a combination of nasal and wound/device swabbing identified 100% of confirmed carriers. For this small group, therefore, there is no benefit in recommending additional body site swabbing; however, it does reemphasize the need for stringent application of the current UK recommendation [ 27] on swabbing all clinically significant sites on admission. Notwithstanding this, the simpler practicalities of reliably applying a 2-swab (nasal plus perineal) regimen to all patients probably outweigh the marginal financial benefits of using nasal swabs only in these patients. The major potential limitation to the validity and generalizability of the findings presented here is the opportunistic nature of recruitment of patients to the study. Previous experience with the Pathfinder study [ 10] suggests that screening compliance is lower in short-stay patients, who are also likely to have a lower prevalence of MRSA carriage. While this may increase the apparent carriage rate in the hospital population, this will be counterbalanced at least to an extent by the residual true positives who remain undiagnosed. Any systematic bias should also be mitigated by the fact that 2 different hospital types were involved and 2 different operational strategies for screening were employed; for the latter, it was noted that recruitment was more problematic where dedicated screeners rather than ward staff were employed. Universal nasal swabbing for MRSA is less effective in practice than previously thought in identifying patients with MRSA carriage, but improving ascertainment from 54% to 72% (assuming 80% compliance) by using a 3-fold combination of nasal, throat, and perineal swabs would come at a significant cost in terms of staff time and resources. Further study of the parameters and economic modeling around the various approaches suggested by this study is required to inform national policy options and will be the subject of an additional publication. "
622565	what do cognitive taxonomies do?	D399467	Bloom's taxonomy	"From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedianavigation search Bloom's taxonomy (cognitive) according to Bloom's verbs and matching assessment types. The verbs are intended to be feasible and measurable. Bloom's taxonomy is a set of three hierarchical models used to classify educational learning objectives into levels of complexity and specificity. The three lists cover the learning objectives in cognitive, affective and sensory domains. The cognitive domain list has been the primary focus of most traditional education and is frequently used to structure curriculum learning objectives, assessments and activities. The models were named after Benjamin Bloom, who chaired the committee of educators that devised the taxonomy. He also edited the first volume of the standard text, Taxonomy of Educational Objectives: The Classification of Educational Goals. [1] [2]Contents [ hide ]1 History2 The cognitive domain (knowledge-based)2.1 Remembering2.2 Comprehending2.3 Applying2.4 Analyzing2.5 Synthesizing2.6 Evaluating3 The affective domain (emotion-based)4 The psychomotor domain (action-based)4.1 Perception4.2 Set4.3 Guided response4.4 Mechanism4.5 Complex overt response4.6 Adaptation4.7 Origination5 Definition of knowledge6 Criticism of the taxonomy7 Implications8 Connections across disciplines9 See also10 References11 Further reading History [ edit]Although named after Bloom, the publication of Taxonomy of Educational Objectives followed a series of conferences from 1949 to 1953, which were designed to improve communication between educators on the design of curricula and examinations. [3]The first volume of the taxonomy, Handbook I: Cognitive [1] was published in 1956, and in 1964 Handbook II: Affective. [4] [5] [6] [7] [8] A revised version of the taxonomy for the cognitive domain was created in 2001. [9]The cognitive domain (knowledge-based) [ edit]In the original version of the taxonomy, the cognitive domain is broken into the following six levels of objectives. [10] In the 2001 revised edition of Bloom's taxonomy, the levels are slightly different: Remember, Understand, Apply, Analyze, Evaluate, Create (rather than Synthesize). [9] [11]Remembering [ edit]Remembering involves recognizing or remembering facts, terms, basic concepts, or answers without necessarily understanding what they mean. Its characteristics may include: Knowledge of specifics—terminology, specific facts Knowledge of ways and means of dealing with specifics—conventions, trends and sequences, classifications and categories, criteria, methodology Knowledge of the universals and abstractions in a field—principles and generalizations, theories and structures Example: Name three common varieties of apple. Comprehending [ edit]Comprehension involves demonstrating understanding of facts and ideas by organizing, comparing, translating, interpreting, giving descriptions, and stating the main ideas. Example: Compare the identifying characteristics of a Golden Delicious apple with a Granny Smith apple. Applying [ edit]Applying involves using acquired knowledge—solving problems in new situations by applying acquired knowledge, facts, techniques and rules. Learners should be able to use prior knowledge to solve problems, identify connections and relationships and how they apply in new situations. Example: Would apples prevent scurvy, a disease caused by a deficiency in vitamin C? Analyzing [ edit]Analyzing involves examining and breaking information into component parts, determining how the parts relate to one another, identifying motives or causes, making inferences, and finding evidence to support generalizations. Its characteristics include: Analysis of elements Analysis of relationships Analysis of organization Example: List four ways of serving foods made with apples and explain which ones have the highest health benefits. Provide references to support your statements. Synthesizing [ edit]Synthesizing involves building a structure or pattern from diverse elements; it also refers to the act of putting parts together to form a whole. Its characteristics include: Production of a unique communication Production of a plan, or proposed set of operations Derivation of a set of abstract relations Example: Convert an ""unhealthy"" recipe for apple pie to a ""healthy"" recipe by replacing your choice of ingredients. Explain the health benefits of using the ingredients you chose vs. the original ones. Evaluating [ edit]Evaluating involves presenting and defending opinions by making judgments about information, the validity of ideas, or quality of work based on a set of criteria. Its characteristics include: Judgments in terms of internal evidence Judgments in terms of external criteria Example: Which kinds of apples are best for baking a pie, and why? The affective domain (emotion-based) [ edit]Skills in the affective domain describe the way people react emotionally and their ability to feel other living things' pain or joy. Affective objectives typically target the awareness and growth in attitudes, emotion, and feelings. There are five levels in the affective domain moving through the lowest-order processes to the highest: Receiving The lowest level; the student passively pays attention. Without this level, no learning can occur. Receiving is about the student's memory and recognition as well. Responding The student actively participates in the learning process, not only attends to a stimulus; the student also reacts in some way. Valuing The student attaches a value to an object, phenomenon, or piece of information. The student associates a value or some values to the knowledge they acquired. Organizing The student can put together different values, information, and ideas, and can accommodate them within his/her own schema; the student is comparing, relating and elaborating on what has been learned. Characterizing The student at this level tries to build abstract knowledge. The psychomotor domain (action-based) [ edit]Skills in the psychomotor domain describe the ability to physically manipulate a tool or instrument like a hand or a hammer. Psychomotor objectives usually focus on change and/or development in behavior and/or skills. Bloom and his colleagues never created subcategories for skills in the psychomotor domain, but since then other educators have created their own psychomotor taxonomies. [7] Simpson (1972) [12] proposed the following levels: Perception [ edit]The ability to use sensory cues to guide motor activity: This ranges from sensory stimulation, through cue selection, to translation. Examples: Detects non-verbal communication cues. Estimate where a ball will land after it is thrown and then moving to the correct location to catch the ball. Adjusts heat of the stove to correct temperature by smell and taste of food. Adjusts the height of the forks on a forklift by comparing where the forks are in relation to the pallet. Key words: chooses, describes, detects, differentiates, distinguishes, identifies, isolates, relates, selects. Set [ edit]Readiness to act: It includes mental, physical, and emotional sets. These three sets are dispositions that predetermine a person's response to different situations (sometimes called mindsets). This subdivision of psychomotor is closely related with the ""responding to phenomena"" subdivision of the affective domain. Examples: Knows and acts upon a sequence of steps in a manufacturing process. Recognizes his or her abilities and limitations. Shows desire to learn a new process (motivation). Key words: begins, displays, explains, moves, proceeds, reacts, shows, states, volunteers. Guided response [ edit]The early stages of learning a complex skill that includes imitation and trial and error: Adequacy of performance is achieved by practicing. Examples: Performs a mathematical equation as demonstrated. Follows instructions to build a model. Responds to hand-signals of the instructor while learning to operate a forklift. Key words: copies, traces, follows, react, reproduce, responds. Mechanism [ edit]The intermediate stage in learning a complex skill: Learned responses have become habitual and the movements can be performed with some confidence and proficiency. Examples: Use a personal computer. Repair a leaking tap. Drive a car. Key words: assembles, calibrates, constructs, dismantles, displays, fastens, fixes, grinds, heats, manipulates, measures, mends, mixes, organizes, sketches. Complex overt response [ edit]The skillful performance of motor acts that involve complex movement patterns: Proficiency is indicated by a quick, accurate, and highly coordinated performance, requiring a minimum of energy. This category includes performing without hesitation and automatic performance. For example, players will often utter sounds of satisfaction or expletives as soon as they hit a tennis ball or throw a football because they can tell by the feel of the act what the result will produce. Examples: Maneuvers a car into a tight parallel parking spot. Operates a computer quickly and accurately. Displays competence while playing the piano. Key words: assembles, builds, calibrates, constructs, dismantles, displays, fastens, fixes, grinds, heats, manipulates, measures, mends, mixes, organizes, sketches. (Note: The key words are the same as in mechanism, but will have adverbs or adjectives that indicate that the performance is quicker, better, more accurate, etc. )Adaptation [ edit]Skills are well developed and the individual can modify movement patterns to fit special requirements. Examples: Responds effectively to unexpected experiences. Modifies instruction to meet the needs of the learners. Performs a task with a machine that was not originally intended for that purpose (the machine is not damaged and there is no danger in performing the new task). Key words: adapts, alters, changes, rearranges, reorganizes, revises, varies. Origination [ edit]Creating new movement patterns to fit a particular situation or specific problem: Learning outcomes emphasize creativity based upon highly developed skills. Examples: Constructs a new set or pattern of movements organized around a novel concept or theory. Develops a new and comprehensive training program. Creates a new gymnastic routine. Key words: arranges, builds, combines, composes, constructs, creates, designs, initiate, makes, originates. Definition of knowledge [ edit]In the appendix to Handbook I, there is a definition of knowledge which serves as the apex for an alternative, summary classification of the educational goals. This is significant as the taxonomy has been called upon significantly in other fields such as knowledge management, potentially out of context. ""Knowledge, as defined here, involves the recall of specifics and universals, the recall of methods and processes, or the recall of a pattern, structure, or setting."" [13]The taxonomy is set out as follows:1.00 Knowledge1.10 Knowledge of specifics1.11 Knowledge of terminology1.12 Knowledge of specific facts1.20 Knowledge of ways and means of dealing with specifics1.21 Knowledge of conventions1.22 Knowledge of trends and sequences1.23 Knowledge of classifications and categories1.24 Knowledge of criteria1.25 Knowledge of methodology1.30 Knowledge of the universals and abstractions in a field1.31 Knowledge of principles and generalizations1.32 Knowledge of theories and structures Criticism of the taxonomy [ edit]As Morshead (1965) pointed out on the publication of the second volume, the classification was not a properly constructed taxonomy, as it lacked a systemic rationale of construction. This was subsequently acknowledged in the discussion of the original taxonomy in its 2001 revision, [9] and the taxonomy was reestablished on more systematic lines. It is generally considered [ citation needed] that the role the taxonomy played in systematising a field was more important than any perceived lack of rigour in its construction. Some critiques of the taxonomy's cognitive domain admit the existence of these six categories but question the existence of a sequential, hierarchical link. [14] Often, educators view the taxonomy as a hierarchy and may mistakenly dismiss the lowest levels as unworthy of teaching. [15] [16] The learning of the lower levels enables the building of skills in the higher levels of the taxonomy, and in some fields, the most important skills are in the lower levels (such as identification of species of plants and animals in the field of natural history ). [15] [16] Instructional scaffolding of higher-level skills from lower-level skills is an application of Vygotskian constructivism. [17] [18]Some consider the three lowest levels as hierarchically ordered, but the three higher levels as parallel. [9] Others say that it is sometimes better to move to Application before introducing concepts, [ citation needed] the idea is to create a learning environment where the real world context comes first and the theory second to promote the student's grasp of the phenomenon, concept or event. This thinking would seem to relate to the method of problem-based learning. Furthermore, the distinction between the categories can be seen as artificial since any given cognitive task may entail a number of processes. It could even be argued that any attempt to nicely categorize cognitive processes into clean, cut-and-dried classifications undermines the holistic, highly connective and interrelated nature of cognition. [19] This is a criticism that can be directed at taxonomies of mental processes in general. Implications [ edit]Bloom's taxonomy serves as the backbone of many teaching philosophies, in particular, those that lean more towards skills rather than content. [8] [9] These educators view content as a vessel for teaching skills. The emphasis on higher-order thinking inherent in such philosophies is based on the top levels of the taxonomy including analysis, evaluation, synthesis and creation. Bloom's taxonomy can be used as a teaching tool to help balance assessment and evaluative questions in class, assignments and texts to ensure all orders of thinking are exercised in students' learning, including aspects of information searching. [20]Connections across disciplines [ edit]The skill development that takes place at these higher orders of thinking interacts well with a developing global focus on multiple literacies and modalities in learning and the emerging field of integrated disciplines. [21] The ability to interface with and create media would draw upon skills from multiple levels of the taxonomy including analysis, application and creation. [22] [23] Bloom's taxonomy (and the revised taxonomy) continues to be a source of inspiration for educational philosophy and for developing new teaching strategies. See also [ edit]DIKW pyramid Educational psychology Educational technology Fluid and crystallized intelligence Higher order thinking skills In Over Our Heads Integrative complexity Know-how Learning cycle Learning styles Mastery learning Metacognition Model of hierarchical complexity Pedagogy Physical education Reflective practice Rubric (academic)Structure of observed learning outcome Wisdom References [ edit]^ a b Bloom, B. S.; Engelhart, M. D.; Furst, E. J.; Hill, W. H.; Krathwohl, D. R. (1956). Taxonomy of educational objectives: The classification of educational goals. Handbook I: Cognitive domain. New York: David Mc Kay Company.^ Shane, Harold G. (1981). ""Significant writings that have influenced the curriculum: 1906-1981"". Phi Delta Kappan. 62 (5): 311–314.^ Bloom et al. 1956, p. 4: ""The idea for this classification system was formed at an informal meeting of college examiners attending the 1948 American Psychological Association Convention in Boston. At this meeting, interest was expressed in a theoretical framework which could be used to facilitate communication among examiners.^ Simpson, Elizabeth J. (1966). ""The classification of educational objectives: Psychomotor domain"". Illinois Journal of Home Economics. 10 (4): 110–144.^ * Harrow, Anita J. (1972). A taxonomy of the psychomotor domain: A guide for developing behavioral objectives. New York: David Mc Kay Company.^ * Dave, R. H. (1975). Armstrong, R. J., ed. Developing and writing behavioral objectives. Tucson: Educational Innovators Press.^ a b Clark, Donald R. (1999). ""Bloom's Taxonomy of Learning Domains"". Retrieved 28 Jan 2014.^ a b Krathwohl, David R. (2002). ""A revision of Bloom's taxonomy: An overview"". Theory Into Practice. Routledge. 41 (4): 212–218. doi: 10.1207/s15430421tip4104_2. ISSN 0040-5841.^ a b c d e Anderson, Lorin W.; Krathwohl, David R., eds. (2001). A taxonomy for learning, teaching, and assessing: A revision of Bloom's taxonomy of educational objectives. Allyn and Bacon. ISBN 978-0-8013-1903-7.^ Hoy, Anita Woolfolk (2007). Educational psychology (10th ed.). Boston: Pearson/Allyn and Bacon. pp. 530–531, 545. ISBN 0205459463. OCLC 68694368.^ Armstrong, Patricia. ""Bloom's Taxonomy"". Vanderbilt University Center for Teaching. Vanderbilt University. Retrieved 29 June 2016.^ Simpson, Elizabeth (1972). ""Educational objectives in the psychomotor domain"" (PDF). 3. Washington, D. C.: Gryphon House: 25–30. Retrieved 3 April 2018.^ Bloom et al. 1956, p. 201.^ Paul, R. (1993). Critical thinking: what every person needs to survive in a rapidly changing world (3rd ed.). Rohnert Park, California: Sonoma State University Press.^ a b Flannery, Maura C. (November 2007). ""Observations on biology"" (PDF). The American Biology Teacher. 69 (9): 561–564. doi: 10.1662/0002-7685 (2007)69 [561: OOB]2.0. CO;2. Biology is often referred to as an observational science almost as a slur, with the implication that biologists simply look at the living world without the strong theoretical and mathematic underpinnings of a science like physics. There is the suggestion that observation is easy. Thus biology is viewed as a lightweight science—anyone can do it: just go out and start looking, at birds, at grass, at cells under the microscope. Benjamin Bloom's taxonomy of learning tasks puts observation at the lowest level, with recall of information. This denigration of observation has long bothered me because I see it as often difficult and complex, a skill that needs to be learned and a talent that is much more developed in some.^ a b Lawler, Susan (26 February 2016). ""Identification of animals and plants is an essential skill set"". The Conversation. Archived from the original on 17 November 2016. Retrieved 5 March 2017. Ironically, the dogma that has been so detrimental to field taxonomy is known as Bloom's taxonomy. University lecturers are told to apply an educational theory developed by Benjamin Bloom, which categorises assessment tasks and learning activities into cognitive domains. In Bloom's taxonomy, identifying and naming are at the lowest level of cognitive skills and have been systematically excluded from University degrees because they are considered simplistic.^ Vygotsky, L. S. (1978). ""Chapter 6: Interaction between learning and development"". Mind in society: the development of higher psychological processes. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press. pp. 79–91.^ Keene, Judith; Colvin, John; Sissons, Justine (June 2010) [2010]. ""Mapping student information literacy activity against Bloom's taxonomy of cognitive skills"". Journal of Information Literacy. 4 (1): 6–21. doi: 10.11645/4.1.189. When supporting students outside the classroom situation, a subject aware advisor should be capable of spotting mistakes in a student's solution and of analysing these mistakes to identify the difficulty that the student is encountering. Such support can be seen as offering scaffolding in a student's 'zone of proximal development' (Vygotsky, 1978) and exemplified by teaching students to analyse a problem through the identification of the key elements and the relationships between these elements.^ Fadul, J. A. (2009). ""Collective Learning: Applying distributed cognition for collective intelligence"". The International Journal of Learning. 16 (4): 211–220. ISSN 1447-9494.^ BJ Jansen, D Booth, B Smith (2009) Using the taxonomy of cognitive learning to model online searching, Information Processing & Management 45 (6), 643-663^ * Kress, G.; Selander, S. (2012). ""Multimodal design, learning and cultures of recognition"". Internet and Higher Education. 15 (1): 265–268. doi: 10.1016/j.iheduc.2011.12.003.^ * Paul, R.; Elder, L. (2004). Critical and creative thinking. Dillon Beach, CA: The Foundation for Critical Thinking.^ * The New London Group (1996). A pedagogy of multiliteracies: designing social futures. Harvard Educational Review. Further reading [ edit]Bloom, B. S. (1994). ""Reflections on the development and use of the taxonomy"". In Rehage, Kenneth J.; Anderson, Lorin W.; Sosniak, Lauren A. Bloom's taxonomy: A forty-year retrospective. Yearbook of the National Society for the Study of Education. 93. Chicago: National Society for the Study of Education. ISSN 1744-7984. Clark, Donald R. (1999). ""Bloom's Taxonomy of Learning Domains"". Retrieved 28 Jan 2014. Krathwohl, D. R.; Bloom, B. S.; Masia, B. B. (1964). Taxonomy of educational objectives: The classification of educational goals. Handbook II: the affective domain. New York: David Mc Kay Company. Morshead, Richard W. (1965). ""On Taxonomy of educational objectives Handbook II: Affective domain"". Studies in Philosophy and Education. 4 (1): 164–170. doi: 10.1007/bf00373956. Orlich, Donald; Harder, Robert; Callahan, Richard; Trevisan, Michael; Brown, Abbie (2004). Teaching strategies: a guide to effective instruction (7th ed.). Houghton Mifflin. ISBN 978-0-6182-9999-7. Categories: Educational technology Educational psychology Classification systems Stage theories "
625652	what do toothed whales eat	D573797	Toothed or baleen?	Toothed or baleen? Scientists divide cetacean species into two groups, depending on whether they have teeth or not. Toothed whales ( Odontocetes)The name ‘toothed whales’ can be a little misleading, because dolphins and porpoises also belong to this group. It does not only describe the big creatures that come to your mind when you think of whales, but also their smaller relatives. The most important trait of toothed whales is what gives them their name: they have teeth. This is the easiest difference to spot between baleen and toothed whales. In almost all toothed whale species, their teeth are cone-shaped and not used for chewing (the exception are Amazon River dolphins; they have two different types of teeth in their mouths). They hunt and catch one prey animal at a time, such as fish, squid, seals, sea lions and even birds. Their prey is then swallowed whole, if it is not too big, or bitten into pieces small enough to swallow. Some toothed whales barely have any teeth because they feed only on squid, which they simply suck into their mouths. Narwhals tusking with each other © Glenn Williams/Wikimedia Commons The male narwhal has a long tusk protruding from its upper jaw. The tusk is actually a modified tooth. There is much debate about what narwhals use their tusks for, but it may be used in competition for females and it can grow to 2-3m long and weigh up to 10kg. Toothed whales are able to echolocate, which they use to hunt and swim in dark waters. Echolocation is a very precise way of sensing the environment. The animal sends out a stream of sounds (such as the dolphins’ “clicks”), which bounce off any objects nearby and return through the water. From the sounds received, the animal can tell the size, position and distance of an object. Dolphins can even tell the difference between different objects (a dolphin can tell the difference between a table tennis ball and a golf ball because of their different densities) and “see” the surface of things. Toothed whales are specialized for hunting agile prey like fish even though they might not be able to see them. Toothed whales range greatly in size. The smallest are the Vaquita and Hector’s dolphins. The vaquita lives in the Gulf of California and reaches sizes of 1.2-1.5m (4-5ft). It is highly endangered, and there are only about 100-300 of them left in the world. Hector’s dolphins live only in New Zealand and measure about 1.4m, they are also endangered, especially their relatives the Maui’s dolphins, of which there are only 80 animals left. The biggest Odontocete is the Sperm Whale, which can reach almost 20m in length (65ft). The Dall’s porpoise is one of the fastest of all the toothed whales © Greg The Busker/Wikimedia Commons Toothed whales populate all oceans of the world, and some also live in rivers. Mostly they are social animals. Some dolphin species, including orcas, form close groups or pods that can get as big as 1000 animals. Toothed whales are also rapid swimmers. Dall’s Porpoises and orcas are both incredibly fast, reaching speeds of 55kph-56kph Do you want to learn more about toothed whales? Check out our Species Guide!Baleen whales ( Mysticetes)This group of whales has the scientific name Mysticetes. The word comes from the Greek word meaning moustache, because the inner edge of the baleen looks like a moustache. These whales don’t have any teeth but instead they have baleen (which is also known as “whalebone”). Baleen is made of keratin, like our fingernails and hair. It continues to grow as long as the whale lives, because it wears down at its tips so it needs to be replaced. The color of baleen ranges from black to yellow or white, depending on the species of whale. Bowhead whales have the longest baleen; it can be up to 5m (16ft) long. Baleen acts like a sieve, filtering plankton or small fish out of the water so that the whale can eat them. This is Antarctic Krill, eaten by a lot of whales © Uwe Kils/Wikimedia Commons Baleen whales are some of the largest of all the whale species; the smallest species (the pygmy right whale) still reaches 6m (19ft) long. With a length of around 30m (98ft), the blue whale is the biggest creature ever to have lived on this planet! As you can probably imagine, they need to eat plenty to survive—the equivalent of you eating 300 chocolate bars every day! But blue whales obviously don’t eat chocolate; they prefer a diet of krill (small shrimp-like creatures). They consume about 40 million krill every day—that’s about the weight of a female African elephant. During feeding times, baleen whales can come together and sometimes cooperate to catch prey, but otherwise they are often found alone. While all baleen whales filter their food out of the water, there use a number of different feeding techniques: there are skimmers, gulpers and suckers. The folds of skin that a humpback whale has on his throat allow his mouth to stretch amazingly wide, which means it can catch large amounts of prey all at the same time © American Cetacean Society During mating and feeding seasons some species briefly form groups; however, mothers and calves have a particularly close bond. Unlike many other mammals, female baleen whales are bigger than males, maybe because they have to care for their calves while migrating long distances. Whale pregnancies last for 10 to 16 months. They seldom have more than one baby at a time. When the calf is born, other females help to protect the mother and her calf. These whales cooperate to feed © Wikimedia Commons A baleen whale baby has to keep up with his or her mother from the very first day of birth, but won’t leave her for about a year. The mother whale will nurse her baby with very fatty milk for about a year, as well as teaching it to feed and protecting it from predators. Still, a newborn blue whale doesn’t have to fear much: it already measures 7m (23ft) at birth and weighs 2,000kg—the weight of an average car.
651901	what does the name rasha	D475169	Rasha Meaning	"Rasha Meaning Name: What does Rasha mean? The name Rasha is of Arabic origin. The meaning of Rasha is ""young gazelle"". Rasha is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ra-sha. The Given Name Rasha Rasha is quite a bold name and a welcome find. This 2 syllable name has charm and a positive vibe. A creative name, that may be just right for you. Rasha falls into the animal name category. Rasha Popularity In the U. S. in 2016, it ranked 8,251 in baby name popularity for girls with 14 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. In contrast, the year before it ranked 15,950 in baby name popularity for girls with 6 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. Want to see how Rasha sizes up? How it compares to some other names? Then check out the Rasha Name Popularity Page. Rasha Related Names The name Rashaad is a form of Rasha. Famous Rashas Rasha Numerology Want to know how your name choice may effect your child? Then take a look at the Numerological Report For Rasha. It may give you some insight about your new baby. Children named Rasha are often jumpy and secretive but most of all they are read more >>Rasha Name Fun Would you like to fingerspell the name Rasha in American Sign Language? Then just follow the diagram below. Be creative with the name Rasha. Just for fun, see the name Rasha in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Rasha in Nautical Flags page. "
658800	what eye structure is transparent	D1393241	How the Human Eye Works	"Live Science Health Reference: How the Human Eye Works By Ker Than, Contributing Writer | May 5, 2016 12:48pm ETMOREPerfect vision is described as 20/20 vision. Credit: IKO | Shutterstock The human eye belongs to a general group of eyes found in nature called "" camera-type eyes ."" Just as a camera lens focuses light onto film, a structure in the eye called the cornea focuses light onto a light-sensitive membrane called the retina. Structure of the eye The cornea is a transparent structure found in the very front of the eye that helps to focus incoming light. Situated behind the pupil is a colorless, transparent structure called the crystalline lens. A clear fluid called the aqueous humor fills the space between the cornea and the iris. ""The cornea focuses most of the light, then it passes through the lens, which continues to focus the light,"" explained Dr. Mark Fromer, an ophthalmologist and retina specialist at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City. [ The 7 Biggest Mysteries of the Human Body]Behind the cornea is a colored, ring-shaped membrane called the iris. The iris has an adjustable circular opening called the pupil, which can expand or contract to control the amount of light entering the eye, Fromer said. Ciliary muscles surround the lens. The muscles hold the lens in place but they also play an important role in vision. When the muscles relax, they pull on and flatten the lens, allowing the eye to see objects that are far away. To see closer objects clearly, the ciliary muscle must contract in order to thicken the lens. The interior chamber of the eyeball is filled with a jelly-like tissue called the vitreous humor. After passing through the lens, light must travel through this humor before striking the sensitive layer of cells called the retina. The retina Fromer explained that the retina is the innermost of three tissue layers that make up the eye. The outermost layer, called the sclera, is what gives most of the eyeball its white color. The cornea is also a part of the outer layer. The middle layer between the retina and sclera is called the choroid. The choroid contains blood vessels that supply the retina with nutrients and oxygen and remove its waste products. [ Image Gallery: Eye Implant Restores Some Vision to Blind]Embedded in the retina are millions of light sensitive cells, which come in two main varieties: rods and cones. Rods are used for monochrome vision in poor light, while cones are used for color and for the detection of fine detail. Cones are packed into a part of the retina directly behind the retina called the fovea, which is responsible for sharp central vision. When light strikes either the rods or the cones of the retina, it's converted into an electric signal that is relayed to the brain via the optic nerve. The brain then translates the electrical signals into the images a person sees, Fromer said. Vision problems/diseases The most common problems with vision are nearsightedness (myopia), farsightedness, (hyperopia), a defect in the eye caused by nonspherical curvature (astigmatism) and age-related farsightedness (presbyopia), according to the National Eye Institute. Most people will develop presbyopia in their 40s or 50s, and start needing reading glasses, Fromer said. With age, the lens gets denser, making it harder for the ciliary muscles to bend the lens, he said. The leading causes of blindness in the United States include cataracts (clouding of the lens), age-related macular degeneration (deterioration of the central retina), glaucoma (damage to the optic nerve), and diabetic retinopathy (damage to retinal blood vessels), according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Other common disorders include amblyopia (""lazy eye"") and strabismus (crossed eyes), the CDC says. Additional reporting by Tanya Lewis, Staff Writer Editor’s Note: If you’d like more information on this topic, we recommend the following book: Buy Human Body: An Illustrated Guide on Amazon.com Related pages about the human body Human Body: Anatomy, Facts & Functions Parts of the human body Bladder: Facts, Function & Disease Human Brain: Facts, Anatomy & Mapping Project Colon (Large Intestine): Facts, Function & Diseases Ears: Facts, Function & Disease Esophagus: facts, Function & Diseases Gallbladder: Function, Problems & Healthy Diet Human Heart: Anatomy, Function & Facts Kidneys: Facts, Function & Diseases Liver: Function, Failure & Disease Lungs: Facts, Function & Diseases Nose: Facts, Function & Diseases Pancreas: Function, Location & Diseases Small Intestine: Function, Length & Problems Spleen: Function, Location & Problems Stomach: Facts, Function & Diseases The Tongue: Facts, Function & Diseases Systems of the human body Circulatory System: Facts, Function & Diseases Digestive System: Facts, Function & Diseases Endocrine System: Facts, Functions and Diseases Immune System: Diseases, Disorders & Function Lymphatic System: Facts, Functions & Diseases Muscular System: Facts, Functions & Diseases Nervous System: Facts, Function & Diseases Reproductive System: Facts, Functions and Diseases Respiratory System: Facts, Function & Diseases Skeletal System: Facts, Function & Diseases Skin: Facts, Diseases & Conditions Urinary System: Facts, Functions & Diseases Additional resources The National Eye Institute has information about common vision problems . To learn more about diseases of the eye, visit the CDC website. You can learn more about human eye anatomy at Allaboutvision.com. You'd Also Like The Five (and More) Senses Live Science'Corneal Melt': Arthritis Complication Lets Woman's Iris Slip Out Live Science Feline Vision: How Cats See the World Live Science First Picture of Living Human Retina Reveals Surprise Live Science Latest on How the Human Eye Works New Printer Inkjet Nozzle Inspired By Human Eye How Far Can the Human Eye See? Why Seeing Around Corners May Become Next 'Superpower'More from Live Science Hospital 'Breach' May Have Exposed Patients to HIV, Hepatitis: What Went Wrong? Scientists Find Very Young Cells in Even Very Old Brains Teeth-Baring 'Zombie' Raccoons Scaring Residents of Ohio Town Spleen: Function, Location & Problems Can Eating Pasta Really Help You Lose Weight? What's in a Fat Cell? Tiny, Lab-Grown Minibrains Sprout Blood Vessels Brain-Uploading Company Has No Immediate Plans to Upload Brains "
663035	what games is shigeru miyamoto famous for creating	D2891213	Shigeru Miyamoto - Creator of Mario, Donkey Kong, and Zelda	"Do More ›Gaming Shigeru Miyamoto - Creator of Mario, Donkey Kong, and Zelda Share Pin Email Print Photo courtesy of Nintendoby D. S. Cohen Updated October 18, 2016After years of developing his latest epic, The Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword, historic game designer Shigeru Miyamoto announced he is going to return to his retro video game roots. Nintendo claims it isn't true, rumors say he's doing it to motivate his team, but either way you can guarantee whatever he has planed will be great. Let's take a look back at how the master of arcades and consoles got his start and the journey that led him to Skyward Sword and his next great adventure. Shigeru Miyamoto Retiring? Upon the news of Shigeru Miyamoto announcing his intended retirement from big tent-pole games, Nintendo quickly scrambled together a press release explaining that Miyamoto will ""continue to be a driving force in Nintendo's development efforts"" and remain on with the company. However, in an interview with Wired.com, Miyamoto himself says ""What I really want to do is be in the forefront of game development once again myself"". Since he conceived and designed Donkey Kong in 1981, Miyamoto has been one of the most prominent and celebrated game designer and producer of all time, following up Donkey Kong with Super Mario Bros., the Legend of Zelda and over a hundred others, nearly all of which have been major hits for Nintendo. Miyamoto himself is as valuable an asset to Nintendo as their flagship character Mario. Having joined the company in 1979 soon after obtaining his Industrial Arts, Miyamoto originally started out assisting on Nintendo's early arcade games such as Sheriff and Space Firebird, but got his big break at the company when Nintendo's then president Hiroshi Yamauchi (Grandson of the company's founder Fusajiro Yamauchi ), assigned the young Miyamoto to come up with a new game that they could switch out with a surplus of arcade cabinets for their failed game Radar Scope. The game Miyamoto came up with ended up being Donkey Kong and put Nintendo on the map as a major player in the video arcade business. Miyamoto followed it up with a string of coin-op video arcade hits, such as Donkey Kong Junior, Popeye. and Mario Bros. Then after the crash of the video game industry in 1983, he helped resurrect the market by reinventing the platform genre on the Nintendo Entertainment System with Super Mario Bros., then continued to make history with The Legend of Zelda, Kid Icarus, and Earthbound. With every generation of Nintendo game console Miyamoto was at the forefront, delivering major hits that would drive sales of the system. From Super Mario Kart and Star Fox for the SNES, to The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time, Super Smash Bros., and Paper Mario for the Nintendo 64, and experimenting with different genres by trying his hand at survival horror with Eternal Darkness: Sanity's Requiem and the sci-fi epic Metroid Prime for the Game Cube. However each subsequent title was more elaborate than the one before it, requiring longer production timelines and bigger teams to manage. This along with numerous titles being developed in tandem, Miyamoto was forced to focus less on creating the game designs himself and serve mainly as a supervisor and general producer. Now the 59 year-old legend seeks to go back to his retro gaming roots where a game idea could be conceived and develop a game in the same year, making it yourself or working with small teams instead of the 30 to 100+ members that most modern AAA Next-Gen titles require. Many gamers today are ether discovering or re-experiencing many of Miyamoto's greatest games thanks to the Wii Virtual Console. Now with Nintendo's other downloadable game portals for their next-gen console and handheld systems, such as Wii Ware and Nintendo's E-Shop, new games with smaller scope focusing on great gameplay are possible once again. Miyamoto is seeing the opportunity embrace the type of work he use to love, and we can't wait to see what he has in store, because every game he touches is guaranteed to become a classic. Was this page helpful? "
666394	what happens in the stomach in lactose intolerant people	D407811	What happens when lactose intolerant people eat dairy products	"Home > ADHD >What happens when lactose intolerant people eat dairy products Health related question in topics . We found some answers as below for this question ""What happens when lactose intolerant people eat dairy products"",you can compare them. A: Common lactose intolerance symptoms are abdominal pain, diarrhea , flatulence (passing gas), abdominal bloating and nausea. Cha Cha [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/what-happens-when-lactose-intolerant-people-eat-dairy-products ]More Answers to "" What happens when lactose intolerant people eat dairy products ""What happens when lactose intolerant people eat dairy products?http://www.chacha.com/question/what-happens-when-lactose-intolerant-people-eat-dairy-products Common lactose intolerance symptoms are abdominal pain, diarrhea , flatulence (passing gas ), abdominal bloating and nausea. Cha Cha What's the safest way for lactose intolerant people to enjoy dair...?http://www.answerbag.com/q_view/372242?ref=W_Ask&utm_source=Ask SG QOTABD RIP SHELLA DARLING Aug 14th, 2007 soy products and soymilk there is soy ice cream that tastes really good , there is soy cheeze and tons of others. Can people with lactose intolerance still have dairy products? ?http://www.nichd.nih.gov/health/topics/lactose_intolerance.cfm Most people with lactose intolerance do not require a completely lactose-free diet. Related Questions Answered on Y!Answers Why haven't I been feeling like myself? Q: So I'll tell a little about myself because maybe there's something I'm missing that you guys might be able to figure out. So sometimes this happens on and off that I get really tired and don't feel like talking to people and when they talk to me, I sometimes just get really angry at them even if it's not a big deal and I always feel badly about it afterward. Lately though, I've been feeling even worse, my heads been hurting and sometimes it will feel so heavy that I have to lie down or sometimes it just keeps pounding and I can't think. I've noticed I've been really tired but today my mom asked me if anything was wrong because I've been acting differently lately so now I know it's not just me thinking this. So now for a little bit of background knowledge... I have been a vegetarian for almost two years now, I doubt that has anything to do with it since I've been eating the same and I've had these times when I just got really tired before hand. I might be lactose intolerant since whenever I eat dairy products I feel really sick after. i also feel really sick after eating sweet foods. it's finals week and I've been studying a lot and sometimes I won't eat as much as I normally do but I've still been eating well. I have a sore throat and cold but you could ask anyone I'm friends with, this is normal for me (I always get sore throats and colds easily)I've been feeling weak lately too. My mom said I should excercise more since my season for lacrosse is over but I don't think that's it since I have worked out and I still feel crappy after. I've been getting to bed at around 10 which is actually pretty early for me and on weekends I'll sleep in but I haven't been able to sleep in as much lately even though I'm really tired and I'll take naps but I'll still feel this tired after. Oh, I also got a deer tick bite a week or so ago and it was about 4 days after that I started feeling this way but I haven't gotten any rings and I felt the tick bite and it probably was only on there for at most an hour so I don't think I could have gotten lyme disease that quickly. I know what's wrong with me is probably not a huge problem but I just want to feel back to myself and stop getting this tired for what seems like no reason. So if anyone has any ideas of what it could be caused by and how to fix it, please let me know! and thank you in advance!A: you poor thing! but im no doctor but my mom has lyme disease and yea it started that quickly, you should not have any yeast, not too much sugar, and have you seen any bulls eye marks on your back? and another thing is not to stress and to eat good whole foods, another one could be that your lacking sleep, you should eat more alkalizing foods a few are,-onions-herbal tea (not decaff, decaff is acidifying which is the opposite of alkalizing)-mango's-and also dipping your feet in lukewarm water with a tablespoon of salt for at least 15 minuteshope these work and that you feel like yourslef soon!Vegetarian (pescetarian technically) with gas and flatulence - anyone with experience? Help? Q: It comes and goes in waves... I've had days with only one small pass and days where my social life is entirely hindered and it gets really embarrassing. Here's my background, and hopefully any current vegans or vegetarians out there with experience can help. What bothers me is that I was told that these issues should stop a couple of months into vegetarianism; it's been an issue for 18months. I'm currently 20yrs old, female. I've been vegetarian for about 2 years. My gas issue started about 6 months into my vegetarianism. I tried to cut dairy out of my diet for various reasons (most environmental, health reasons e.g. hormones/antibiotics they feed cows plus the methane issue) 6months before becoming veg. From that point on I relied heavily on soy products for about 18months. Since then, due to the hormonal/estrogen research to do with soy, I've cut it down as much as possible. I now drink almond milk (not often; mostly for cooking pancakes or baking etc. Seldomly drank it). I've tried to reincorporate Yogurt into my diet (to improve the probiotics in my intestinate/digestive tract in case that was a reason for flatulence), and even cheeses. I'm not sure if lactose intolerance is an issue; I wasn't intolerant as a child but maybe these can be developped? I'm going to cut out dairy again to see if that's something that can affect the problem. I occasionally eat fish such as salmon, halibut, tuna. This is very seldom and usually only when my only alternative vegetarian-friendly restaurant choice is pasta smothered in cream and cheese or something equally unhealthy. This happens maybe once every 2 weeks. WHAT I'VE TRIED:-L. acidophilus probiotic supplement-Yogurt-Beano WHAT I WANT TO TRY/AM SUSPICIOUS OF:-I kept a food diary and eliminated carbonated beverages after noticing a strong correlation (I will miss beer...) but that didn't completely solve the problem by any means-Maybe I should try to eliminate dairy again? Lactose intolerance? Even though I wasn't as a child. -Watch how much/volume of what I eat - I've gained my freshman 15 in the past while and I think that if I eat slower and less overall it should help, but even while doing so I've only noticed a partial, not entire, decrease. Basically I'll concentrate more on eating slowly and not swallowing air-no drinks through straws or anything that requires you to suck a drink down (e.g. pop bottles)I know that lots of people go through life drinking pop and beer without many side effects at all - I used to be one of them - and this is really stressing me out. Any answers would be lovely. xxxxxx Knowing that lactose intolerance CAN be a time thing (to do with cutting down and then reincorporating it into the diet) is useful - I'm going to contact some doctors and see if I can set up appointments to see if I'm gluten intolerant (hopefully not celiac, that's a whole new ballgame =\) or lactose intolerant. Please keep responding, this is quite helpful xxxxxx A: You are not a vegetarian, please stop referring to yourself as one. It makes life much more difficult for us non-animal eaters. If you are suspicious of these things, then eliminate them. For the Lactose issues, get some Lactaid and see if it helps. I know plenty of folks who developed this later in life - as the human body is set up to do after weaning naturally anyway. Obviously, beans, many veggies, dairy, beer, and yeasty products can also contribute. If it's a problem that you can't nail down, then a doctor's visit is most certainly in order. And it's important that you are reading balanced things on soy. Every few years there's some new deadly food that thousands of articles are written on, usually picking up on one or two studies that may or may not be valid. http://www.vegfamily.com/health/vegan-soy-information.htm Edit: I forgot to mention that too much of certain vitamins/supplements can also cause problems. Vitamin C, Zinc, and just about anything in excess can certain lead to GI upset, which in some shows up as gas. TOPPrev Question: What are the side effects of Motrin Next Question: People also view What happens when lactose intolerant people eat dairy products What are the side effects of Motrin What are the symptoms for intestinal gas What happens when you're lactose intolerant Does diarrhea have acid in it Where does your stomach usually hurt during the first two months of pregnancy What are the symptoms of having bad gas What are the symptoms of diphyllobothriasis How do u no if u have a stomach olser -Vanna is mine-What are the early signs of diarrhea "
668517	what helps dry up poison ivy	D1092228	Does rubbing alcohol really dry up poison Ivy rash?	Health Diseases & Conditions Skin Conditions Does rubbing alcohol really dry up poison Ivy rash? Does rubbing alcohol really dry up poison Ivy rash? Or what else might you recommend to dry up poison Ivy quickly. Some people say use hot water until you cant bear it anymore and others say bleach or alcohol? Anyone had any experience with these? Thank you for any info!2 following 15 answers Answers Relevance Rating Newest Oldest Best Answer: My dear elderly mother-in-law used to swear that dabbing a bit of white shoe polish on the spots sealed them up so they wouldnt ooze and dried them out too. Looks funny but she was a gardener and outdoors-woman and this was her remedy.wasacon · 9 years ago2 0 1 comment Rubbing Alcohol On Poison Ivy Source (s):https://shorte.im/bb M5dbarbati · 1 year ago0 0 Comment This Site Might Help You. RE: Does rubbing alcohol really dry up poison Ivy rash? Does rubbing alcohol really dry up poison Ivy rash? Or what else might you recommend to dry up poison Ivy quickly. Some people say use hot water until you cant bear it anymore and others say bleach or alcohol? Anyone had any experience with these? Thank you for any info!Source (s):rubbing alcohol dry poison ivy rash: https://tr.im/7RI2MAnonymous · 3 years ago0 0 Comment I have a severe case of poison ivy right now it started on Tuesday. Had to go to the doc for oral prednisone since my face and mouth swelled so much. Also, I am taking 150 mg Zantac twice a day. This is for stomach but it is an H2 antagonist. It has something to do with stopping histamine response and takes away some of the redness. What has helped me t dry it up is washing the areas with yellow Dial soap several times a day. I wipe the area with rubbing alcohol before using the dial soap. Also, try using a paste of baking soda and water. 3 parts baking soda and 1 part water. Let the baking soda paste dry. Also, using a cup of baking soda in the tub helps too. I tired Benadryl cream and that made it much worse.kimmiann99 · 9 years ago2 0 Comment Putting rubbing alcohol on poison ivy won't hurt anything, and may help it heal faster by drying out the oozing rash. For some people applying rubbing alcohol also makes it itch less, and since it won't hurt you, it's worth a try. Good luck!Kathryn · 2 years ago1 0 Comment For the best answers, search on this site https://shorturl.im/E9dhr Well rubbing alcohol is drying just like calamine lotion. It would burn like the dickens, not sure if it would help the rash, but it can't make it any worse. Careful not to get it infected scratching. My exhusband had an incident feeding poision ivy covered limbs into a chipper/shredder. All that stuff blowing into the air... yep little bits hit him all over. We actually ended up in the ER twice getting him injections of steroids and antibiotics. Crystal · 2 years ago1 0 1 comment Yes, the rubbing alcohol definitely helps, have used it many times over the years. I use a 50% version so it s not full strength and apply it with a Q tip, just don t use the same Q tip if the ivy is scratched open or you ll be spreading it wherever you touch! The alcohol dries it up and it eventually goes away. I apply it 2X - 4X daily....anthony · 2 years ago0 0 Commentthe best thing for poison ivy is called DOMBORO you get it at wal-mart or the drug store. i know it will dry it up from experience. you just add a packet to a bottle of water soak paper towels and lay it on there for 15 min 3 times a day and you will notice a difference in about 2 days. tried the vinegar, bleach and everything else this will work. keep it on hand at all times. lotions only spread the ivy so don't use them. Source (s):had it bad 3 trips to dr. only thing that worked.kathy p · 9 years ago1 1 1 comment If you want to dry up the oozing of poison ivy, ANY liquid will do it, and the safest is just plain water. Surprisingly, water is a drying agent. Think about it: if you stay in a tub of water too long, what happens to your skin? It dries out to be a prune!! So, the more you soak with water, the less oozing will happen with your posion ivy. After you're done soaking, you can then apply some hydrocortisone cream.zitdr_02 · 9 years ago1 2 3 commentsas a kid, I always got poison ivy. Once my leg swoll up to twice its size....could not bend knee and spent a week in bed.... YES, rubbing alcohol helps. Later, I took oral poison ivy antidote (diluted poison ivy in a small bottle), and I hardly ever got PI again...bob Riverman1007 · 2 years ago0 0 Comment1 2 next Maybe you would like to learn more about one of these? Need migraine treatment? Need debt consolidation loans? Psoriatic arthritis symptoms? Interested in Life Alert?
669002	what herbs and spices are good for inflammation	D995244	Top Anti-Inflammatory Foods, Herbs, and Spices	"Top Anti-Inflammatory Foods, Herbs, and Spices0February 02, 2015 • 2,086,173 views Edition: English Previous Next Your browser does not currently recognize any of the video formats available. Click here to visit our frequently asked questions about HTML5 video. Visit the Mercola Video Library Story at-a-glance The thread linking a wide variety of common health problems—from obesity and diabetes to heart disease and cancer—is chronic inflammation The key to reducing chronic inflammation starts with your diet. Being liberal in your use of high-quality herbs and spices is one simple way to boost the anti-inflammatory quality of your food Four herbs and spices found to quell the inflammatory response most effectively are cloves, ginger, rosemary, and turmeric By Dr. Mercola Herbs and cooking spices contain a wide variety of antioxidants, minerals and vitamins, and help maximize the nutrient density of your meals. Every time you flavor your meals with herbs or spices you are literally ""upgrading"" your food without adding a single calorie. In fact, on a per gram fresh weight basis, herbs rank even higher in antioxidant activity than fruits and vegetables, which are known to be high in antioxidants. Many studies have also shown that most spices tend to have unique medicinal qualities. In the featured study, 1 researchers from three Universities devised an experiment to evaluate the ""true world"" benefits of herbs and spices, by feeding them to people in quantities that are typically consumed simply by spicing up your meals. As noted by Dr. Michael Greger MD, who produced the video above: 2""The researchers could have taken the easy route and just measured the change in antioxidant level in one's bloodstream before and after consumption, but the assumption that the appearance of antioxidant activity in the blood is an indication of bioavailability has a weakness. Maybe more gets absorbed than we think but doesn't show up on antioxidant tests because it gets bound up to proteins or cells. So the researchers attempted to measure physiological changes in the blood. They were interested in whether absorbed compounds would be able to protect white blood cells from an oxidative or inflammatory injury—whether herb and spice consumption would protect the strands of our DNA from breaking when attacked by free radicals. ""Four Spices That Pack a Powerful Anti-Inflammatory Punch For one week, 10 to 12 subjects in each of 13 groups consumed a small amount of a particular spice each day. For example, those in the oregano group ate just half a teaspoon of oregano daily for seven days. Blood samples were drawn one hour prior to consumption, and at the very end of the experiment. The participants' blood was then analyzed for antioxidant capacity. The researchers also analyzed how well the blood could dampen an induced inflammatory response in white blood cells. This was done by placing the participants' blood onto white blood cells that had been damaged by oxidized cholesterol (commonly found in fried foods). Even at the ""everyday"" dosage amounts given, four spices were found to be significantly effective at quelling the inflammatory response: Cloves Ginger Rosemary Turmeric As noted in the featured article: "" [T]he results represents what might happen when cells in our body are exposed to the levels of spices that circulate in our bloodstream after normal daily consumption—not megadoses in some pill. Just the amount that makes our spaghetti sauce, pumpkin pie, or curry sauce taste good. ""Other Potent Anti-Inflammatory Spices An earlier study published in the Journal of Medicinal Foods 3 found a direct correlation between the antioxidant phenol content of spice and herb extracts and their ability to inhibit glycation and block the formation of AGE compounds (advanced glycation end products), making them potent preventers of heart disease and premature aging. Here, cloves were ranked as the most potent of 24 common herbs and spices found in your spice rack. In all, the following were found to be the top 10 most potent anti-inflammatory herbs and spices: Cloves Cinnamon Jamaican allspice Apple pie spice mixture Oregano Pumpkin pie spice mixture Marjoram Sage Thyme Gourmet Italian spice Inflammation Is at the Heart of Most Chronic Diseases It's important to realize that chronic inflammation is the source of many if not most diseases, including cancer, obesity, and heart disease, which essentially makes it the leading cause of death in the US. While inflammation is a perfectly normal and beneficial process that occurs when your body's white blood cells and chemicals protect you from foreign invaders like bacteria and viruses, it leads to trouble when the inflammatory response gets out of hand. Your diet has a lot to do with this chain of events. While among the most potent, ounce for ounce, herbs and spices are certainly not the only anti-inflammatory ingredients available. A number of foods are well-known for their anti-inflammatory properties, and making sure you're eating a wide variety of them on a regular basis can go a long way toward preventing chronic illness. Top Seven Anti-Inflammatory Foods The following foods and nutrients deserve special mention for their ability to quell inflammatory responses in your body:1. Animal-based omega-3 fat Animal-based omega-3 fats—found in fatty fish like wild Alaskan salmon and fish- or krill oil —help fight inflammation throughout your body. It's particularly important for brain health. Research published in the Scandinavian Journal of Gastroenterology 4 in 2012 confirmed that dietary supplementation with krill oil effectively reduced inflammation and oxidative stress.2. Leafy greens Dark leafy greens such as kale, spinach, collard greens and Swiss chard contain powerful antioxidants, flavonoids, carotenoids, and vitamin C—all of which help protect against cellular damage. Ideally, opt for organic locally grown veggies that are in season, and consider eating a fair amount of them raw. Juicing is an excellent way to get more greens into your diet.3. Blueberries Blueberries rate very high in antioxidant capacity compared to other fruits and vegetables. They are also lower in sugar than many other fruits.4. Tea Matcha tea is the most nutrient-rich green tea and comes in the form of a stone-ground unfermented powder. The best Matcha comes from Japan and has up to 17 times the antioxidants of wild blueberries, and seven times more than dark chocolate. Tulsi is another tea loaded with anti-inflammatory antioxidants and other micronutrients that support immune function and heart health.5. Fermented vegetables and traditionally cultured foods Optimizing your gut flora is important for a well-functioning immune system, and helps ward off chronic inflammation. In fact, the majority of inflammatory diseases start in your gut, as the result of an imbalanced microbiome. Fermented foods such as kefir, natto, kimchee, miso, tempeh, pickles, sauerkraut, olives, and other fermented vegetables, will help 'reseed' your gut with beneficial bacteria. Fermented foods can also help your body rid itself of harmful toxins such as heavy metals and pesticides that promote inflammation.6. Shiitake mushrooms Shiitake mushrooms contain strong compounds with the natural ability to discourage inflammation, such as Ergothioneine, which inhibits oxidative stress. They also contain a number of unique nutrients that many do not get enough of in their diet. One is copper, which is one of the few metallic elements accompanied by amino and fatty acids that are essential to human health. Since your body can't synthesize copper, your diet must supply it regularly. Copper deficiency can be a factor in the development of coronary heart disease.7. Garlic Garlic has been treasured for its medicinal properties for centuries. It's also one of the most heavily researched plant foods around. Over 170 studies 5 show it benefitting more than 150 different conditions. Garlic exerts its benefits on multiple levels, offering anti-bacterial, anti-viral, anti-fungal, and antioxidant properties. It's thought that much of garlic's therapeutic effect comes from its sulfur-containing compounds, such as allicin. Research 6 has revealed that as allicin digests in your body it produces sulfenic acid, a compound that reacts faster with dangerous free radicals than any other known compound. Your Diet Is Key for Reducing Chronic Inflammation The running thread linking a wide variety of common health problems—from obesity and diabetes to heart disease and cancer—is chronic inflammation. The key to reducing chronic inflammation in your body starts with your diet, and being liberal in your use of high-quality herbs and spices is one simple way to boost the quality of your food. They're an inexpensive ""secret weapon"" that just about everyone can take advantage of. Spicing up your meals is not enough, however, if processed foods comprise the bulk of your diet. It's important to realize that dietary components can either prevent or trigger inflammation from taking root in your body, and processed foods do the latter, courtesy of pro-inflammatory ingredients like high fructose corn syrup, soy, processed vegetable oils (trans fats), and other chemical additives. Besides adding anti-inflammatory foods to your diet, you'll also want to avoid the following pro-inflammatory dietary culprits as much as possible: Refined sugar, processed fructose, and grains. If your fasting insulin level is three or above, consider dramatically reducing or eliminating grains and sugars until you optimize your insulin level, as insulin resistance this is a primary driver of chronic inflammation. As a general guideline, I recommend restricting your total fructose intake to 25 grams per day. If you're insulin or leptin resistant (have high blood pressure, high cholesterol, heart disease, or are overweight), consider cutting that down to 15 grams per day until your insulin/leptin resistance has normalized Oxidized cholesterol (cholesterol that has gone rancid, such as that from overcooked, scrambled eggs)Foods cooked at high temperatures, especially if cooked with vegetable oil (such as peanut, corn, and soy oil)Trans fats Replacing processed foods with whole, ideally organic foods will automatically address most of these factors, especially if you eat a large portion of your food raw. Equally important is making sure you're regularly reseeding your gut with beneficial bacteria, as mentioned above. To help you get started on a healthier diet, I suggest following my free Optimized Nutrition Plan, which starts at the beginner phase and systematically guides you step-by-step to the advanced level. Get My Best Health Tips for FREEIf you haven't already, here's your chance to subscribe to the world's most popular newsletter! My FREE newsletter is instrumental in changing the lives of many people across the world. If you want to take control of your health then you won't want to miss out on this opportunity. When you subscribe I guarantee: You'll be the first to hear about fast-breaking health news and hard-to-find tips for improving your emotional, physical, and spiritual well-being You'll save money because I'm committed to helping you stay healthy, so you won't need expensive prescription drugs or doctor's visits so often You'll get straight talk from me in plain English that shatters all the myths and misconceptions about health, aging, and fitness You'll gain unlimited access to free e Books that can have a profound impact on your health Subscribe Now and Gain Unlimited Access to My Library of Free e Books0+Sources and References "
680596	what is a decorum	D1935102	decorum	decorumde·co·rum Use decorum in a sentence A little girl shows proper decorum. Licensed from i Stock Photonoun Decorum is defined as appropriate, polite behavior in society. An example of decorum is to show good table manners. Your Dictionary definition and usage example. Copyright © 2018 by Love To Know Corp Link/Citedecorumpropriety and good taste in behavior, dress, etc.an act or requirement of polite behavior: often used in pl. Origin of decorum L, neuter of decorus, fit, proper from decor: see decor Webster's New World College Dictionary, Fifth Edition Copyright © 2014 by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company. All rights reserved. Link/Citedecorumnoun Appropriateness of behavior or conduct; propriety: “In the Ireland of the 1940's … the stolidity of a long, empty, grave face was thought to be the height of decorum and profundity” ( John Mc Gahern )decorums The conventions or requirements of polite behavior: the formalities and decorums of a military funeral. The appropriateness of an element of an artistic or literary work, such as style or tone, to its particular circumstance or to the composition as a whole. Origin of decorum Latin decōrum from decōrus becoming, handsome ; see decorous . THE AMERICAN HERITAGE® DICTIONARY OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE, FIFTH EDITION by the Editors of the American Heritage Dictionaries. Copyright © 2016, 2011 by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company. Published by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Company. All rights reserved. Link/Citedecorum Noun ( countable and uncountable, plural decorums) (uncountable) Appropriate social behavior; propriety (countable) A convention of social behavior Origin From Latin decōrus (“proper, decent”). English Wiktionary. Available under CC-BY-SA license. Link/Cite
685728	what is a grammar	D1535160	What is Grammar?	"What is Grammar? And why grammar is your friend...grammar (noun): the structure and system of a language, or of languages in general, usually considered to consist of syntax and morphology Grammar is the system of a language. People sometimes describe grammar as the ""rules"" of a language; but in fact no language has rules*. If we use the word ""rules"", we suggest that somebody created the rules first and then spoke the language, like a new game. But languages did not start like that. Languages started by people making sounds which evolved into words, phrases and sentences. No commonly-spoken language is fixed. All languages change over time. What we call ""grammar"" is simply a reflection of a language at a particular time. Do we need to study grammar to learn a language? The short answer is ""no"". Very many people in the world speak their own, native language without having studied its grammar. Children start to speak before they even know the word ""grammar"". But if you are serious about learning a foreign language, the long answer is ""yes, grammar can help you to learn a language more quickly and more efficiently."" It's important to think of grammar as something that can help you, like a friend. When you understand the grammar (or system) of a language, you can understand many things yourself, without having to ask a teacher or look in a book. So think of grammar as something good, something positive, something that you can use to find your way - like a signpost or a map. *Except invented languages like Esperanto. And if Esperanto were widely spoken, its rules would soon be very different. Universal Grammar Home : Learn English : Grammar : What is Grammar? "
687589	what is a interlock system	D1823553	Interlock (engineering)	"This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (November 2007) ( Learn how and when to remove this template message)""Interlock"" redirects here. For other uses, see Interlock (disambiguation). An interlock is a feature that makes the state of two mechanisms or functions mutually dependent. It may be used to prevent undesired states in a finite-state machine, and may consist of any electrical, electronic, or mechanical devices or systems. In most applications, an interlock is used to help prevent a machine from harming its operator or damaging itself by preventing one element from changing state due to the state of another element, and vice versa. Elevators are equipped with an interlock that prevents the moving elevator from opening its doors, and prevents the stationary elevator (with open doors) from moving. Although both are idiot proof strategies, an interlock should not be confused with a simple safety switch. For example, in a typical household microwave oven, the switch that disables the magnetron if the door is opened is not an interlock. Rather, it would be considered an interlock if the door were locked while the magnetron is on, and the magnetron were prevented from operating while the door is open. Interlocks may include sophisticated elements such as curtains of infrared beams, photodetectors, a computer containing an interlocking computer program, digital or analogue electronics, or simple switches and locks. Contents [ hide ]1 Trapped key interlocking2 Microprocessors3 Mechanical4 Electrical5 See also6 References Trapped key interlocking [ edit]Trapped key interlocking is a method of ensuring safety in industrial environments by forcing the operator through a predetermined sequence using a defined selection of keys, locks and switches. It is called ""Trapped Key"" as it works by releasing and trapping keys in a predetermined sequence. After the control or power has been isolated, a key is released that can be used to grant access to individual or multiple doors. For example, to prevent access to the inside of an electric kiln, a trapped key system may be used to interlock a disconnecting switch and the kiln door. While the switch is turned on, the key is held by the interlock attached to the disconnecting switch. To open the kiln door, the switch is first opened, which releases the key. The key can then be used to unlock the kiln door. While the key is removed from the switch interlock, a plunger from the interlock mechanically prevents the switch from closing. Power cannot be re-applied to the kiln until the kiln door is locked, releasing the key, and the key is then returned to the disconnecting switch interlock. [1] A similar two-part interlock system can be used anywhere it is necessary to ensure the energy supply to a machine is interrupted before the machine is entered for adjustment or maintenance. Microprocessors [ edit]In microprocessor architecture an interlock is hardware that stalls the pipeline (inserts bubbles) when a hazard is detected until the hazard is cleared. One example of a hazard is if a software program loads data from the system bus and calls for use of that data in the following cycle in a system in which loads take multiple cycles (a load-to-use hazard). Mechanical [ edit]Interlocks may be strictly mechanical, as in one form of internal firearm safety, that blocks motion of the trigger, sear and/or firing pin unless the breech is properly closed & locked. In the operation of a device such as a press or cutter that is hand fed or the workpiece hand removed, the use of two buttons to actuate the device, one for each hand, greatly reduces the possibility of operation endangering the operator. No such system is fool-proof, and such systems are often augmented by the use of cable–pulled gloves worn by the operator; these are retracted away from the danger area by the stroke of the machine. A major problem in engineering operator safety is the tendency of operators to ignore safety precautions or even outright disabling forced interlocks due to work pressure and other factors. Therefore, such safeties require and perhaps must facilitate operator cooperation. Electrical [ edit]Many people use generators to supplement power to a home or business in the event that main (municipal) power has gone offline. In order to safely transfer the power source from a generator (and back to main), a safety interlock is often employed. The interlock consists of one or more switches that prevent both main power and generator power from powering the dwelling simultaneously. Without this safeguard, both power sources running at once could cause an overload condition, or generator power back-feed onto the main could cause dangerous voltage to reach a lineman repairing the main feed far outside the building. An interlock device is designed to allow a generator to provide backup power in such a way that it (a) prevents main and generator power to be connected at the same time, and (b) allows circuit breakers to operate normally without interference in the event of any overload condition. Most interlock devices for electrical systems employ a mechanical device to manage movement of circuit breakers. Some also allow for the use of padlocks to prevent someone from accidentally activating the main power system without authorization. [2]See also [ edit]Look up interlock in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Fail-safe Breath alcohol ignition interlock device Safety instrumented system Lockout-tagout References [ edit]^ Harry Fraser, The electric kiln: a user's manual 2nd edition, University of Pennsylvania Press, 2000,page 41^ ""A Sample Lockout/Tagout Procedure"" (PDF). bwc.ohio.gov. Ohio Bureau of Workers' Compensation: Division of Safety and Hygiene. Retrieved 24 March 2015. "
691261	what is a mixture that surround earth	D16791	Introduction to the Atmosphere	"NOTICE: Website will be moving!Project LEARN pages are in the process of moving to our parent website at the UCAR Center for Science Education ( https://scied.ucar.edu ). Please bookmark https://scied.ucar.edu so you can find these pages in the future. Introduction to the Atmosphere This section provides a brief overview of the properties associated with the atmosphere. The general concepts found in this section are: The earth's atmosphere is a very thin layer wrapped around a very large planet. Two gases make up the bulk of the earth's atmosphere: nitrogen ( ), which comprises 78% of the atmosphere, and oxygen ( ), which accounts for 21%. Various trace gases make up the remainder. Based on temperature, the atmosphere is divided into four layers: the troposphere, stratosphere, mesosphere, and thermosphere. Energy is transferred between the earth's surface and the atmosphere via conduction, convection, and radiation. Ocean currents play a significant role in transferring this heat poleward. Major currents, such as the northward flowing Gulf Stream, transport tremendous amounts of heat poleward and contribute to the development of many types of weather phenomena. This section includes seven classroom activities. Atmospheric Properties The thin envelope of air that surrounds our planet is a mixture of gases, each with its own physical properties. The mixture is far from evenly divided. Two elements, nitrogen and oxygen, make up 99% of the volume of air. The other 1% is composed of ""trace"" gases, the most prevalent of which is the inert gaseous element argon. The rest of the trace gases, although present in only minute amounts, are very important to life on earth. Two in particular, carbon dioxide and ozone, can have a large impact on atmospheric processes. Another gas, water vapor, also exists in small amounts. It varies in concentration from being almost non-existent over desert regions to about 4% over the oceans. Water vapor is important to weather production since it exists in gaseous, liquid, and solid phases and absorbs radiant energy from the earth. Structure of the Atmosphere The atmosphere is divided vertically into four layers based on temperature: the troposphere, stratosphere, mesosphere , and thermosphere. Throughout the Cycles unit, we'll focus primarily on the layer in which we live - the troposphere. Troposphere The word troposphere comes from tropein, meaning to turn or change. All of the earth's weather occurs in the troposphere. The troposphere has the following characteristics. It extends from the earth's surface to an average of 12 km (7 miles). The pressure ranges from 1000 to 200 millibars (29.92 in. to 5.92 in.). The temperature generally decreases with increasing height up to the tropopause (top of the troposphere); this is near 200 millibars or 36,000 ft. The temperature averages 15°C (59°F) near the surface and -57°C (-71°F) at the tropopause. The layer ends at the point where temperature no longer varies with height. This area, known as the tropopause, marks the transition to the stratosphere. Winds increase with height up to the jet stream. The moisture concentration decreases with height up to the tropopause. The air is much drier above the tropopause, in the stratosphere. The sun's heat that warms the earth's surface is transported upwards largely by convection and is mixed by updrafts and downdrafts. The troposphere is 70% and 21%. The lower density of molecules higher up would not give us enough to survive. Atmospheric Processes Interactions - Atmosphere and Ocean In the Cycles overview, we learned that water is an essential part of the earth's system. The oceans cover nearly three-quarters of the earth's surface and play an important role in exchanging and transporting heat and moisture in the atmosphere. Most of the water vapor in the atmosphere comes from the oceans. Most of the precipitation falling over land finds its way back to oceans. About two-thirds returns to the atmosphere via the water cycle. You may have figured out by now that the oceans and atmosphere interact extensively. Oceans not only act as an abundant moisture source for the atmosphere but also as a heat source and sink (storage). The exchange of heat and moisture has profound effects on atmospheric processes near and over the oceans. Ocean currents play a significant role in transferring this heat poleward. Major currents, such as the northward flowing Gulf Stream, transport tremendous amounts of heat poleward and contribute to the development of many types of weather phenomena. They also warm the climate of nearby locations. Conversely, cold southward flowing currents, such as the California current, cool the climate of nearby locations. Energy Heat Transfer Practically all of the energy that reaches the earth comes from the sun. Intercepted first by the atmosphere, a small part is directly absorbed, particularly by certain gases such as ozone and water vapor. Some energy is also reflected back to space by clouds and the earth's surface. Energy is transferred between the earth's surface and the atmosphere via conduction, convection, and radiation. Conduction is the process by which heat energy is transmitted through contact with neighboring molecules. Some solids, such as metals, are good conductors of heat while others, such as wood, are poor conductors. Air and water are relatively poor conductors. Since air is a poor conductor, most energy transfer by conduction occurs right at the earth's surface. At night, the ground cools and the cold ground conducts heat away from the adjacent air. During the day, solar radiation heats the ground, which heats the air next to it by conduction. Convection transmits heat by transporting groups of molecules from place to place within a substance. Convection occurs in fluids such as water and air, which move freely. In the atmosphere, convection includes large- and small-scale rising and sinking of air masses and smaller air parcels. These vertical motions effectively distribute heat and moisture throughout the atmospheric column and contribute to cloud and storm development (where rising motion occurs) and dissipation (where sinking motion occurs). To understand the convection cells that distribute heat over the whole earth, let's consider a simplified, smooth earth with no land/sea interactions and a slow rotation. Under these conditions, the equator is warmed by the sun more than the poles. The warm, light air at the equator rises and spreads northward and southward, and the cool dense air at the poles sinks and spreads toward the equator. As a result, two convection cells are formed. Meanwhile, the slow rotation of the earth toward the east causes the air to be deflected toward the right in the northern hemisphere and toward the left in the southern hemisphere. This deflection of the wind by the earth's rotation is known as the Coriolis effect. Radiation is the transfer of heat energy without the involvement of a physical substance in the transmission. Radiation can transmit heat through a vacuum. Energy travels from the sun to the earth by means of electromagnetic waves. The shorter the wavelength, the higher the energy associated with it. This is demonstrated in the animation below. As the drill's revolutions per minute (RPMs) increase, the number of waves generated on the string increases, as does the oscillation rate. The same principle applies to electromagnetic waves from the sun, where shorter wavelength radiation has higher energy than longer wavelength radiation. Most of the sun's radiant energy is concentrated in the visible and near-visible portions of the spectrum. Shorter-than-visible wavelengths account for a small percentage of the total but are extremely important because they have much higher energy. These are known as ultraviolet wavelengths. Concluding Thoughts The physical and chemical structure of the atmosphere, the way that the gases interact with solar energy, and the physical and chemical interactions between the atmosphere, land, and oceans all combine to make the atmosphere an integral part of the global biosphere. For students to truly understand the nature and importance of the atmosphere, they should understand the answers to these questions: What is the structure and composition of the atmosphere? How does solar energy influence the atmosphere? How does the atmosphere interact with land and oceans? How is heat transferred throughout the earth system? Activities The following activities will help your students better understand the concepts covered in this section. Activity 1: The Goldilocks Principle – A Model of Atmospheric Gases Activity 2: How High Does the Atmosphere Go? Activity 3: It's Just a Phase – Water as a Solid, Liquid, and Gas Activity 4: The Water Cycle Activity 5: Atmospheric Processes – Radiation Activity 6: Atmospheric Processes – Conduction Activity 7: Atmospheric Processes – Convection To proceed, either click on Activities in the menu at the top or click on another unit (for example, Introduction to Climate) to switch units. "
706092	what is a web, or cluster, diagram?	D320395	Cluster diagram	"A Cluster diagram or clustering diagram is a general type of diagram, which represents some kind of cluster. A cluster in general is a group or bunch of several discrete items that are close to each other. The cluster diagram figures a cluster, such as a network diagram figures a network, a flow diagram a process or movement of objects, and a tree diagram an abstract tree. But all these diagrams can be considered interconnected: A network diagram can be seen as a special orderly arranged kind of cluster diagram. A cluster diagram is a mesh kind of network diagram. A flow diagram can be seen as a line type of network diagram, and a tree diagram a tree type of network diagram. Contents [ hide ]1 Types of cluster diagrams2 References3 Further reading4 External links Types of cluster diagrams [ edit]Specific types of cluster diagrams are: Comparison diagram of sky scraper Astronomic cluster diagram of the Messier 3globular cluster Biositemap diagram Cluster chart in brainstorming In architecture a comparison diagram is sometimes called a cluster diagram. [1]In astronomy diagrams of star clusters, galaxy clusters or globular clusters. In brainstorming a cluster diagrams is also called cloud diagram. They can be considered ""are a type of non-linear graphic organizer that can help to systematize the generation of ideas based upon a central topic. Using this type of diagram... can more easily brainstorm a theme, associate about an idea, or explore a new subject"". [2] Also, the term cluster diagrams is sometimes used as synonym of mind maps "". [3]Computer architecture diagram of a PCComputer network diagram Internet diagram System context diagram In computer science more complex diagrams of computer networks, computer architecture, file systems and internet can be considered cluster diagrams. In information visualization specific visual representation of large-scale collections of non-numerical information are sometimes drawn in the shape of a cluster diagram. In quantum field theory for example, according to Crawford (1998), the called coupled cluster diagram is a ""simple diagrammatic formalism popularized by Kucharski and Bartlett [in 1986] by which one may construct the coupled cluster energy and amplitude equations far more quickly than by direct application of Wick's theorem "". [4]UML Class diagram UML Component diagram UML Composite structure diagram UML Deployment diagram In the Unified Modeling Language (UML) all structure diagrams can be considered cluster diagrams. These structure diagrams emphasize what things must be in the system being modeled. UML encounters here the Class diagram, Component diagram, Composite structure diagram, Deployment diagram, Object diagram, and the Package diagram. References [ edit]^ Illustration called City of London Skyscraper Cluster Diagram at skyscrapernews.com. Retrieved 18 september 2008. Comment: This illustration depicts a ""comparison diagram"", but yet is called a ""cluster diagram"".^ Cluster/Cloud Diagrams at enchantedlearning.com. 2003-2009. Accessed Nov 17, 2009.^ Cluster diagrams are another way to mind map by starting with the keywords first. Archived 2008-09-28 at the Wayback Machine. at www.brainstorming-that-works.com. Retrieved 18 september 2008.^ T. Daniel Crawford (1998). "" An Introduction to Coupled Cluster Diagrams Archived 2008-01-15 at the Wayback Machine ."". In: Reviews in computational chemistry. Kenny B. Lipkowitz, Donald B. Boyd eds. (2000) Vol 14. p.77. (Retrieved 18 september 2008). Further reading [ edit]Lee E. Brasseur (2003). Visualizing technical information: a cultural critique. Amityville, N. Y: Baywood Pub. ISBN 0-89503-240-6. M. Dale and J. Moon (1988). ""Statistical tests on two characteristics of the shapes of cluster diagrams"". in: Journal of Classification, 1988, vol. 5, issue 1, pages 21–38. Robert E. Horn (1999). Visual Language: Global Communication for the 21st Century. Macro VU Press. External links [ edit]Wikimedia Commons has media related to Cluster diagram. Cluster diagram at cap.nsw.edu.au City of London Skyscraper Cluster Diagram "
70824	can limestone be dissolved by carbonic acid?	D2169382	Which Acids Dissolve Limestone?	Science Chemistry Acids & Bases Q: Which Acids Dissolve Limestone? A: Quick Answer Carbonic acid, hydrochloric acid and acetic acid are some acids that react with limestone, causing it to dissolve. Each of these acids reacts with limestone in different ways. Limestone is made up mainly of calcite that is the chemical compound calcium carbonate. Continue Reading Keep Learning Can Stomach Acid Dissolve Metal? What Is in a List of Weak Acids? What Is a List of Acids and Their Sources? Full Answer Carbonic acid, which is a weak acid, forms when rainwater and carbon dioxide in the air react with one another. When carbonic acid comes into contact with limestone or calcium carbonate, it can cause it to dissolve over a long period of time. In nature, this reaction leads to the formation of caves. Vinegar, which contains about 5 percent acetic acid, is often used as an acid test for limestone. When limestone and acetic acid react, there is a fizzing reaction. The reaction between limestone and a strong acid like hydrochloric acid results in the formation of the products carbon dioxide, water, calcium ions and chloride ions. This reaction causes carbon dioxide bubbles. Learn more about Acids & Bases Sources: geology.com k5geosource.org utexas.edu Related Questions Q: What Are Some Acids That React With Metals? A: Some acids that react with metals are sulfuric acid, hydrochloric acid and nitric acid. The most common metals that react with acids are iron, lead, magnes... Full Answer >Filed Under: Acids & Bases Q: What Are Examples of Acids and Bases? A: Some common examples of acids are hydrosulfuric acid, hydrobromic acid, hydrochloric acid, hydroiodic and hydrofluoric acid, while some common bases are ca... Full Answer >Filed Under: Acids & Bases Q: What Are Some Items That Would Be on a List of Strong Acids? A: A list of strong acids includes hydrochloric acid, nitric acid, sulfuric acid, hydrobromic acid, hydroiodic acid, chloric acid and perchloric acid. When ad... Full Answer >Filed Under: Acids & Bases Q: What Is the PH of Acetic Acid? A: The p H value for acetic acid depends on its molar concentration in an aqueous solution. Acetic acid with a molar concentration of 0.9 or approximately 1.0 ... Full Answer >Filed Under: Acids & Bases You May Also Like Q: What Is a CN Compound? Q: What Are the PI Values of Amino Acids? Q: What Is the PH of Ammonia? Q: Is Benzoic Acid Polar or Nonpolar? Q: Is Battery Acid Dangerous? Q: What Is a Base in Chemistry?
711014	what is an acupressure mat	D387063	.	Acupressure mats being used effectively by people suffering ailments including Back & Neck Pain, Stress, Anxiety, Insomnia, Poor Blood Circulation, Muscle Tension, Headaches & Migraines, and even excess weight. Acupressure mats can be used to help restore balance in your body naturally. Acupressure mats stimulate your skin and pressure points in your body, which in turn triggers the production of endorphins and oxytocin – your body’s own natural pain-relieving and feel-good hormones. The release of these hormones result in the relief of pain and stress without the use of harmful drugs. The effects are noticed right away after using the acupressure mat for a 20 minutes session. Heavenly Acupressure Mats makes enjoying the benefits of acupressure in the comfort of your own home easy and affordable. Pain Relief Stress Relief Increased Energy Levels Relaxation Better Sleep Just want to follow up after having this awesome mat a couple months now~ STILL in love! I have had a few friends try it out as well and we all think it’s great! If anyone’s skeptic about this little piece of heaven, don’t be, I wouldn’t recommend anything but this for any muscle tension, headaches, meditation etc. this mat is awesome!— Natali, United States I have used this mat every day since I got it a week ago and I just love it. It relaxes me completely and I even go to sleep using it. It took a few minutes at first for the initial discomfort of the points to go away but now I’m used to it and even can stand on it. Very glad I got it and plan on giving it as gifts to people.— Laura, New York I have used the Heavenly Mat for sleeping starting about 1 month ago, I have tried teas, herbal and vitamin supplements which helped but they don’t keep me asleep for the night. The Mat is what I found to help me sleep and stay sleep the entire night. I wake up feeling very relaxed and refreshed, not groggy or heavy feeling.— Michelle, Bend, OR. Acupressure and acupuncture have been used for over 5,000 thousand years for healing and wellness in Asia and more recently in Europe. The wonderful benefits of acupressure and acupuncture have been documented for thousands of years. The World Health Organization (WHO) has even issued a report entitled “Acupuncture: Review and Analysis of Reports on Controlled Clinical Trials”, with a long list of diseases and disorders for which acupuncture is considered to be effective. On the Dr. Oz Show in 2011, Dr. Mehmet Oz, a cardiac surgeon educated at Harvard, Wharton, and University of Pennsylvania, featured acupressure mats on his show and named them “1 of 3 weight loss must haves”Relieve Back & Neck Pain Relieve Stress Relieve Migraines & Headaches Relieve Muscle Tension & Spasms Relieve Insomnia Reduce Inflammation Improve Blood Circulation Lose Weight Promote Relaxation & Well-being In a research study on the benefits of acupressure mats by Dr. Zilberter in Hillsborough, North Carolina, the following results were reported by the participants:98% reported pain relief,96% reported relaxation,94% reported improved sleep,81% reported an increase in energy levels. Shop Heavenly Acupressure Mat Size: 29 x 17 inches, Points: 8820Black$49.90 $27.20 Select Qty Green$49.90 $27.20 Select Qty Blue$49.90 $27.20 Select Qty Heavenly Acupressure Pillow Size: 12 x 9 x 2-3 inches, Points: 1638Black $19.99 Select Qty Green $19.99 Select Qty Blue $19.99 Select Qty Heavenly Acupressure Mat and Pillow Mat Size: 29 x 17 inches, 8820 Points Pillow Size: 12 x 9 x 2-3 inches, 1638 Points Black $37.00 Select Qty Green $37.00 Out of Stock Blue $37.00 Select Qty Shipping Country State Method Gift Certificate / Coupon Coupon Check Out Or checkout with Pay Pal. If you are an international client having challenges with your transaction, please use the Pay Pal option for payment. You can use your credit card to pay through Pay Pal. Newsletter
71299	can menopause cause dry eyes and mouth?	D1869086	Dry Eye After Menopause	Home Vision Over 40 » Dry Eye After Menopause Dry Eye After Menopause By Marilyn Haddrill and Gary Heiting, ODLike This Page? Please Share!More Dry Eye Articles Dry eye syndrome is common among older Americans, and symptoms can range from mild and infrequent to constant and severe. And if you are a woman over age 50, your risk of dry eye problems is significantly higher than that of men your age. In a large study of aging adults published recently in American Journal of Ophthalmology, the prevalence of dry eyes (determined by self-reported frequency and intensity of dry eye symptoms by the study participants) was 17.9 percent among women and 10.5 percent among men. The exact role menopause plays in the development of dry eyes is not well understood, but many women who are beginning to experience menopause or who are post-menopausal suffer from dry eye symptoms. Hormone replacement therapy (HRT) used to treat menopause does not appear to reduce the risk of dry eyes. In fact, HRT may increase a woman's risk of dry eyes or worsen dry eye symptoms. Dry eyes are common in women after menopause. In a study published in JAMA (the Journal of the American Medical Association), researchers found that post-menopausal women being treated with HRT had higher prevalences of dry eye syndrome than women of the same age who opted not to undergo HRT — 69 percent higher among women receiving estrogen alone, and 29 percent higher among those receiving estrogen plus progesterone or progestin. Also, the longer the duration of HRT, the higher the risk of dry eye syndrome among the study participants. The authors of this study concluded that the balance of sex hormones (i.e., estrogens and androgens) may be important in determining risk of dry eye syndrome, but that additional studies are needed to better understand this relationship. In the meantime, they recommended that women who are taking hormonal replacements for menopause or who are considering HRT should be aware of the potential increased risk of dry eye syndrome with this therapy. What Can You Do If You Are Older And Develop Dry Eyes? If you are nearing the age when menopause commonly occurs and have been diagnosed with dry eye, you may want to avoid laser vision correction surgery. Procedures such as LASIK and PRK can worsen dry eye problems. If you choose to have a refractive surgery consultation, be sure to tell your examining eye doctor about your dry eye condition. Your doctor can perform special tests to determine if your eyes are moist enough for laser vision correction. If you already have been diagnosed with dry eyes, make sure you are being treated appropriately for other conditions associated with both aging and dry eye, such as rheumatoid arthritis and thyroid autoimmune disease. Also, keep in mind that many medications required by adults over age 40 may cause or worsen dry eye problems. Examples include diuretics (often prescribed for heart conditions) and antidepressants. If you suspect a medications may be the underlying cause of your dry eye, be sure to discuss this with your doctor. It's possible that changing to a different medical treatment may be equally effective without causing dry eye problems. There are many causes of dry eyes that can affect people of all ages, including eye allergies and a variety of environmental factors. The first step in getting relief is to schedule an appointment to see your eye doctor for a thorough evaluation of your eyes and a discussion of any dry eye symptoms you may have. Though lubricating eye drops commonly are recommended for mild dry eyes, ask your doctor about the latest dry eye treatments and which one (s) might be best for you. Back to top References & Notes >>American Journal of Ophthalmology JAMAPage updated March 2017More Dry Eye Articles About Dry Eye Syndrome | About Dry Eyes: FAQAnswers From a Dry Eye Expert | Dry Eyes After Menopause Meibomian Gland Dysfunction | Sjogren's Syndrome Dry Eye Treatment: Overview | Dry Eye Treatment: Punctal Plugs Dry Eye Prevention: Nutrition | Contact Lenses for Dry Eyes LASIK and Dry Eyes Dry Eye FAQs: Can dry eyes cause blurry vision? Can dry eyes cause eye pain? Can dry eyes cause headaches? Can dry eyes cause migraines? Can medications cause dry eyes? Can you get dry eyes from using a computer or watching TV? How can my watery eyes be dry? What are the best dry eye supplements? What are the best eye drops for dry eyes? What are the best foods for dry eyes? What causes dry eyes? What is chronic dry eye? What is dry eye? What medications make my dry eye worse? When is the best time to use artificial tears for dry eyes? Why do I wake up with dry eyes? Like This Page? Please Share!
714130	what is an example of a commensalism relationship?	D3184073	What is an example of commensalism, mutualism, and parasitism? How are they applied?	Ashima Sethi, works at Studying Answered Feb 27, 2016 Commensalism is relationship between individuals of two species in which one individual is benefitted from the other without affecting it. For example Barnacles Cattle Egrets Hermit Crabs Mutualism is relationship between individuals of two species in which both of the individuals are benefitted. Lichen is a mutual relationship between fungi and algae. Parasitim is when one individual the parasite is benefitted at the expense of the other,the host. For example lice,tapeworm.432 Views · View Upvoterspromoted by UC Berkeley Extension Medical microbiology course at UC Berkeley Extension. Prepare for grad school & health careers with courses from UC Berkeley Extension. Learn More at extension.berkeley.edu
721537	what is avfax	D1037505	.	AEGIS VALUE FUND (AVALX & AVFAX)The Aegis Value Fund is a contrarian, fundamentals-driven mutual fund focused on deep-value small cap stocks. Managed by Scott Barbee since inception, the Fund has a long track record focused on exploiting investment opportunities within the low price-to-book equity segment. The research team is strongly committed to the strategy, with significant co-investment in the Fund. Performance Daily NAV as of 4/11/2018Fund Name NAV $ Change Percent Change INSTITUTIONAL CLASS (AVALX) $20.63 $0.17 0.83%RETAIL CLASS (AVFAX) $20.47 $0.17 0.84%Quarter-End Month-End Quarter-End Performance as of 3/31/18Annualized3 Months YTD 1 Year 3 Years 5 Years 10 Years Since Inception*Aegis Value Fund Class I (AVALX) 1.32% 1.32% 18.93% 17.62% 5.77% 8.62% 10.27%Aegis Value Fund Class A Without Load (AVFAX) 1.23% 1.23% 18.60% 17.37% N/A N/A 3.10%Aegis Value Fund Class A With Load (AVFAX) -2.56% -2.56% 14.15% 15.89% N/A N/A 2.15%Russell 2000 Value Index -2.64% -2.64% 5.13% 7.87% 9.96% 8.61% 8.14%S&P 500 Index -0.76% -0.76% 13.99% 10.78% 13.31% 9.49% 6.45%*The inception date for AVALX (Class I) is 05/15/1998. The inception date for AVFAX (Class A) is 02/26/2014.^Since Inception returns are as of the fund's I Class date. The returns for the Russell 2000 Value Index is 7.35% and S&P500 Index is 11.44% as of the inception date of the A Class month-end data numbers. The returns for the Russell 2000 Value Index is 7.35% and S&P500 Index is 11.44% as of the inception date of the A Class for quarter-end data numbers. The Fund Class I (AVALX) and Class A (AVFAX) shares have an annualized gross expense ratio of 1.50% and 1.76%, respectively. The Fund Class I (AVALX) and Class A (AVFAX)'s net annualized expense ratio, after fee waiver, is 1.50%, and 1.75%, respectively. Under the waiver, the Advisor has contractually agreed to limit certain fees and/or reimburse certain of the Fund 's expenses through April 30, 2018. Click here for the Fund's most recent Factsheet.
721620	what is awd	D2375068	What is AWD, 4WD, and FWD?	Cars & Transportation Buying & Selling What is AWD, 4WD, and FWD? What is the difference between AWD, 4WD, and FWD, please dont send me a link just explain it. I never understand which one is which and which one can be part time, not full time.3 following 8 answers Answers Relevance Rating Newest Oldest Best Answer: Ok here it goes! An AWD (All Wheel Drive) car, has All four wheels working all the time! In snow, sand, off-road, even in perfect driving conditions, all four wheels are working. You can't turn it off, it just is always there. Cars that have AWD are Subaru's. A 4WD car has a switch to turn on the all four wheels. So when the roads get icy or sandy, you can turn the switch and be in 4WD. When you not in 4WD, (or when you turn your 4WD off) you are driving in FWD (Front Wheel Drive). Until you activate the 4x4 option. 4WD is typically seen on trucks and SUV's. FWD (front wheel drive) Is just the front tires working. This is found on cars like the Toyota Corolla or the Honda Civic and Accord. And then there is RWD (Rear Wheel Drive). Which uses the back wheels. I hope that helped and hopefully it made sense! =)Kassy B · 9 years ago24 2 1 comment Asker's rating AWD is all the wheels having power at some time, 4WD is a switch to make all four wheels have power,I should say a switch,or lever,and maybe hubs that need turned to lock in.4WD vehicles will run in two wheel drive. They might drive on either front or back wheels until locked in. FWD is just front wheel drive only. Hope I helped. Tim H · 9 years ago1 0 Comment Lets start with the basic, RWD, or rear wheel drive. The back wheels drive the car. 4wd is an adaption off this where an extra gearbox is added between the transmission and the drive axle so that drive power can be directed to the back and an additional front drive axle. FWD, front wheel drive, is where the transmission and drive axle are mounted in the same case and power the front wheels. AWD, all wheel drive, is an adaption of fwd to be able to route power to the back wheels of a fwd car. Source (s): I have read several car magazinesthisiscrazy70605 · 9 years ago2 0 Comment AWD is all wheel drive: ur car drives full force with all wheels 4wheel drive is bassically a better version of AWD and FWD is front wheel drive which means the two front wheels are the strongest Ehsaan H · 9 years ago1 0 Comment This Site Might Help You. RE: what is AWD, 4WD, and FWD? What is the difference between AWD, 4WD, and FWD, please dont send me a link just explain it. I never understand which one is which and which one can be part time, not full time. Source (s):awd 4wd fwd: https://shortly.im/VHN4K? · 3 years ago0 0 Comment All Wheel Drive, 4 Wheel Drive and Front Wheel Drive. El Dude · 9 years ago1 0 Comment AWD: all wheel drive 4WD: four wheel drive FWD: front wheel drive haha, i feel so smart being a girl and all. : Pmystic k · 9 years ago2 4 Commentall wheel drive, 4 wheel drive, forward wheel drive. theres also RWD rear wheel drive...most cars are front wheel drive, meaning the 2 FRONT tires turn on an axis, all wheel drives are mostly found on off road vehicles, all 4 tires turn on axis.some random guy · 9 years ago0 0 Comment AWD IS FULL TIME 4-WHEEL DRIVE 4WD GIVES YOU THE OPTION OF GOING FROM TO WHEEL DRIVE (ALL 4 SPINNING) TO 2WD (JUST BACK TIRES SPINNING) AND 2WD IS JUST THE FRONT TIRES SPINNING... HOPE THIS HELPSRoach · 9 years ago0 2 Commentall wheel four wheels front wheel Trey · 9 years ago0 1 Comment Maybe you would like to learn more about one of these? Train To Be a Project Manager Try for your MBA online? Need a DUI Attorney? Interested in Life Alert?
723608	what is betaine hci	D297699	Betaine Hydrochloride	Betaine Hydrochloride Uses Betaine hydrochloride is an acidic form of betaine, a vitamin-like substance found in grains and other foods. Betaine hydrochloride is recommended by some doctors as a supplemental source of hydrochloric acid for people who have a deficiency of stomach acid production (hypochlorhydria). What Are Star Ratings? This supplement has been used in connection with the following health conditions: Used for Why Acne Rosacea Refer to label instructions Hydrochloric acid and vitamin B complex improved some cases of rosacea in people with low stomach acid. Take only under the supervision of a healthcare practitioner. More Allergies and Sensitivities and Food Allergies Refer to label instructions Hydrochloric acid secreted by the stomach helps to digest protein, and may theoretically help break down food allergens to smaller molecules that are not allergenic. More Asthma Refer to label instructions Used under medical supervision, betaine HCl may help restore stomach acid levels and improve asthma symptoms. More Chronic Candidiasis Refer to label instructions Betaine hydrochloride is a type of digestive enzyme that inhibits the overgrowth of candida and prevents it from becoming established in the small intestine. More Dermatitis Herpetiformis Refer to label instructions To correct the low stomach acid that often occurs with DH, some doctors recommend betaine HCI, a source of hydrochloric acid. More Gallstones Refer to label instructions People with gallstones may have insufficient stomach acid and may benefit from supplementing with betaine HCI. More Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease Refer to label instructions Hydrochloric acid is sometimes recommended by practitioners of natural medicine in the hope that improved digestion will help prevent reflux. More Hives Refer to label instructions Lack of hydrochloric acid (HCl) secretion by the stomach may contribute to chronic hives related to food allergies. Supplementing with betaine HCI, which contains hydrochloric acid, may help. More Indigestion, Heartburn, and Low Stomach Acidity Consult your doctor Supplementing betaine hydrochloride with meals may improve digestion in people who have been diagnosed with low stomach acid (hypochlorhydria). More Rheumatoid Arthritis Refer to label instructions When stomach acid is low, supplementing with betaine HCl can reduce food-allergy reactions and help some people with rheumatoid arthritis. More Vitiligo Refer to label instructions Lack of stomach acid may play a role in vitiligo. Supplementing with betaine HCL may help repigment the skin. More Top of Page How It Works Last Review: 05-24-2015Copyright © 2017 Healthnotes, Inc. All rights reserved. www.healthnotes.com Learn more about Healthnotes, the company. The information presented by Healthnotes is for informational purposes only. It is based on scientific studies (human, animal, or in vitro), clinical experience, or traditional usage as cited in each article. The results reported may not necessarily occur in all individuals. For many of the conditions discussed, treatment with prescription or over the counter medication is also available. Consult your doctor, practitioner, and/or pharmacist for any health problem and before using any supplements or before making any changes in prescribed medications. Information expires December 2017. This information does not replace the advice of a doctor. Healthwise, Incorporated, disclaims any warranty or liability for your use of this information. Your use of this information means that you agree to the Terms of Use. Learn how we develop our content . Healthwise, Healthwise for every health decision, and the Healthwise logo are trademarks of Healthwise, Incorporated.
729510	what is chalk talk?	D326807	Demystifying the chalk talk	Demystifying the chalk talk By Charles Brenner Congratulations! You’ve succeeded as a graduate student, changed institutions and obtained first-author publications. You’ve obtained funding for your postdoctoral fellowship or even for your transition to independence. You’ve identified some schools that are looking for faculty members in your area and have developed a brief, compelling research plan. Your referees are enthusiastic and prompt. You were personable and prepared during a phone call or Skype with the search committee chair, and you’ve been invited to a two-day campus interview. There, you will have meetings with members of the search committee and other members of the faculty, have lunch with graduate students and postdocs, take tours of shared resources and give two presentations. On the first day, you’ll give your 60-minute public seminar, being sure to finish in 45 to 50 minutes to allow for questions. On the second day, you’ll be in the conference room for a 60-minute chalk talk. Because chalk talks are not generally open to postdoctoral fellows, you’ve never seen one, but you’ve heard that great candidates do not always give good chalk talks. What’s a chalk talk? A chalk talk is your opportunity to present your forward-looking research program to potential colleagues. They will have seen your seminar on the first day, so your research accomplishments will be fresh on their minds. They will be wondering how you plan to organize your laboratory, what types of experiments you plan to do first, what your funding plans are, what your relationship is with your current principal investigator, who you think your major competition is and how well you have thought out your research plans in case things don’t work out the way you think they will. Do you have to use chalk? Generally, no, though you should ask. Channel your inner PI Never interview as though you are a postdoc with only your two hands. Project your inner principal investigator, who is capable of defending a progressive research plan to successful colleagues and who appears capable of directing a small research group. Though your plans probably require another two to three people to get off the ground, if you describe plans for your first eight trainees, you are likely to come off as far too ambitious (and expensive) to hire. Organizing your presentation Spend the first few minutes on a summary slide or two to remind the audience of your major findings. Don’t assume a good memory or great insights into your experimental system. The next slide is an outline of a couple of fundable directions in which you plan to take your work. You may have three or more project ideas, but you won’t have time to show more than one or two, and you should not show your third best idea during this hour. Your transition to independence will require intense focus and many tactical decisions. You do not want to look scattered. Determine your best project (s) in advance and practice your chalk talk with faculty members of diverse backgrounds. As soon as you have sketched out the one or two projects you plan to launch, you might state that you’d like to spend the next 30 to 35 minutes on project 1 and the remaining time on project 2. The best next slide is a bulleted list of the specific aims in your first project. Here, candidates with funding that will extend into their next positions have a huge advantage. These candidates can list the aims of their R00 or R01 or American Heart Association grant. Such aims are always easier to defend, because the candidates have defended them already to a review panel and because faculty members will feel that one of two major risks has been taken off their hands. The first risk is that a new hire might fail to obtain external funding for the research program. The second risk is that, even if startup and other funding is in place, the project may not work or may work and have limited scientific impact. Faculty will interject freely during your presentation, in part to get their key questions answered and in part to see how you interact and think on your feet. Your ability to interact as a peer is paramount. If you have an advocate on the faculty, this person will help you get to your second project, especially if the discussion bogs down somewhere. In general, you should describe experimental plans with as few slides as possible. You may get some bonus points if you can use the white board effectively in response to a question. You get major bonus points for composure, clarity and cutting-edge approaches to problems that will move your field forward. If you are reading this column as a trainee who has yet to be invited to give a chalk talk, the best practice is to write a grant proposal to fund your research ideas. You can be assured that reviewers will identify the problems!Charles Brenner ( charles-brenner@uiowa.edu) is the Roy J. Carver chair of biochemistry at the University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine.
740513	what is dna analysis testing definition	D807800	DNA Analysis	DNA Analysis Types of DNA Analysis DNA analysis is the process in which genetic sequences are studied. It is used by law enforcement and medical personnel to identify a particular person or species, and even specific cancers and diseases. At one point the analysis process was very limited. Now, DNA is analyzed using several processes. There are Three Main Types of Forensic DNA Analysis Y-Chromosome Short Tandem Repeats (STR) using the Ploymerase Chain Reaction (PCR)Mitochondrial DNA (mt DNA)Y-Chromosome Analysis The Y chromosome is very helpful in identifying suspects in forensic applications. The Y chromosome is only found in the males so that analyzing the male chromosome separates out the female DNA. This chromosome is only passed down from father to son, so it is also very useful in identifying familial relationships. An advantage to analyzing the Y chromosome is the ability to limit the potential pool of suspects, even when there is more than one male contributor found in a biological sample. Short Tandem Repeat Analysis (STR)Short Tandem Repeat (STR) analysis examines the specific areas (loci) on the normal or nuclear DNA. These regions of DNA are different for each person. Because of this, the testing process enhances the distinct differences between one DNA profile and another. With the exception of identical twins, there is an one in a 1,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 chance of two people sharing the same 15-loci profile. CODIS uses a specified 13 STR loci as its standard, a standard that was chosen by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Setting a standard guarantees that all forensic labs will be able to use the same DNA databases and have the ability to share forensic information. To use the CODIS database in unsolved cases, the profiles must be created using the STR process and the specified 13 loci that were determined by the FBI. Mitochondrial DNA Analysis Mitochondrial DNA (mt DNA) analysis is good for evidence that cannot be analyzed using traditional STR analysis. The mitochondrial DNA analysis technique uses DNA that is extracted from the mitochondrion. STR analysis uses DNA from the cell’s nucleus. Typically, mt DNA is used to extract DNA from old evidence like hair, teeth and bones that no longer has any nucleic DNA material to use for STR analysis. The mt DNA analysis process is extremely beneficial in helping to solve cold cases and unidentified remains. Traditional STR analysis can be used to create a DNA profile from weakened evidence but materials like blood or semen may be too destroyed for PCR testing to generate an accurate profile. However, the hair shaft can be analyzed using mt DNA and can then play an important role in solving the case. Mitochondrial DNA is passed down to all of the offspring from only the mother, so all maternal relatives have the same mitochondrial DNA. Among other things this allows unidentifiable remains to be identified using the mt DNA of any maternal relative. Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR)The Polymerase Chain Reaction is an important laboratory procedure used in STR or Short Tandem Repeat analysis. It is one of the most significant advances in science. The process involves copying a portion of DNA with a small molecular machine called polymerase, an enzyme, to duplicate DNA regions in a test tube. The process can be repeated to produce billions of DNA molecules in a few hours. Unlike other types of analysis, this DNA analysis process can reproduce DNA using a tiny sample of cells. Because this process requires only a small sample, a laboratory can analyze even the most degraded sample. The downside to polymerase chain reaction analysis is the contamination issue. This technique will replicate any DNA found in an evidence sample, requiring a greater amount of attention in the collection, identifying and preserving evidence. The contamination risk is important when investigating the evidence that may be stored or collected.
741180	what is dpe	D2829248	Cisco Broadband Access Center Administrator s Guide, Release 3.5	This chapter deals with RDU TCP Connection Management, RDU Batch Concurrency and RDU DPE synchronization.• TCP Connection Management• RDU Batch Concurrency• DPE-RDU Synchronization TCP Connection Management Communication between the RDU and its clients, such as DPEs, API, occurs over TCP. Each client creates a connection to the RDU that is maintained as long as the client desires. Over this connection, clients submit batches to the RDU while the RDU replies with the batch results and additionally sends events. In order to maintain the connection, a heart beat is used when no other traffic is available. Timeouts are used to prevent the RDU and the clients from creating unwanted traffic. Heart Beat Heart beat messages are initiated by the clients. The client sends a heart beat when a read timeout has occurred and it is in the process of receiving a message. On receiving this heart beat, the RDU echoes it. The client receives this echo and recognizes that the connection is alive. This cycle repeats itself until the connection is lost. If the client fails to receive a reply after sending the heart beat (echo message), it closes its connection and attempts to open a new one. The RDU will close the connection if no traffic is sent or received for two consecutive read timeouts. To change the number of read timeouts before closing the connection, you must set the following property in the RDU property file and restart the application. You can configure this property in the BPR_HOME/rdu/rdu.properties file./messaging/connection/num Read Timeouts=<value>RDU Batch Concurrency In the Cisco BAC system, a provisioning client submits API requests to the RDU in the form of batches containing single or multiple commands. A command represents an operation that can be performed on an object in the RDU's database, for example, changing a device's Class of Service. Depending on the commands contained in the batch, the RDU executes the batch in one of two modes: concurrent or non-concurrent. The commands contained within a batch determine the mode it is to be executed with. When a batch is received at the RDU, its commands are checked and the batch is marked with the mode with which it must be executed with. During the execution of a concurrent-mode batch, other concurrent-mode batches are allowed to be executed in parallel. The majority of batches executed are run in the concurrent mode. If the batch is marked as non-concurrent, it is executed only when all the currently executing batches are completed in the RDU. The non-concurrent batch is run alone. After the batch completes running, the RDU processes the queued batches in the mode that they have been marked. The reason concurrent and non-concurrent modes exist is to provide higher throughput at the RDU without losing data integrity. There are only a few commands that cause a batch to run in non-concurrent mode. They are mainly concerned with system configuration operations that are not called very often. Non-concurrent Commands Along with Server Registration, if any of the following commands are present in a batch, it is executed in non-concurrent mode. Configuration Interface• add License Key• add User• add Custom Property Definition• add Class Of Service• add File• change Class Of Service Properties• change DPEDefaults• change Extension Point Settings• change RDUDefaults• change System Defaults• change File Properties• change Prov Group Properties• change User• delete Class Of Service• delete File• delete License Key• remove Custom Property Definition• replace File IPDevice Interface• add Device Type• change Defaults• delete Device Type• regen Configs• IPDevice.add Node• IPDevice.change Node Properties• IPDevice.delete Node• IPDevice.add Node Type• IPDevice.change Node Type Priority• IPDevice.change Node Type Properties• IPDevice.delete Node Type Long-Running Batch A long-running batch is one that requires more than two seconds to execute. The only batch that fits into this category is the synchronization batch submitted by the DPEs. Additional batches can become long running batches if custom extension points are used to interface with external systems (e.g. publishing to an external database). Long-running batches, interleaved with non-concurrent batches, can create an impression that the RDU is not responding or is frozen. If a long-running batch is in progress and the next batch in the queue is a non-concurrent batch, the RDU waits for all current batches to finish before it starts to execute the non-concurrent batch. It also will not start any other batches. At those times, the RDU will seem to not respond. However, as soon as the long-running batch is completed, the RDU resumes executing the queued batches. At this point, the RDU will respond again. DPE-RDU Synchronization Cisco BAC supports multiple DPEs. The DPEs communicate with devices and the RDU. During installation, you must configure the following for each DPE:• Name of the provisioning group to which this DPE belongs; this name determines the logical group of devices serviced by this DPE.• The IP address and port number of the RDU. Device instructions are generated at the RDU during the first boot of the device. The RDU then sends the new instructions to all DPEs that service the provisioning group of the given device. The RDU will regenerate the instructions for a device when certain provisioning API calls are made at the RDU (such as changing the Class of Service of the device). The DPE stores the instructions and uses it to service subsequent requests. The DPE persists all device instructions that it receives from the RDU to disk. Each instruction includes an identifier (device identifier or file name) and a revision number which is incremented every time the instruction is regenerated. In addition to events (dynamic notifications) fired by the RDU to all DPEs when a given configuration changes, there is also an automatic synchronization process which is used to bring DPE up to date with the RDU. The DPE-RDU synchronization is a process of automatically updating the DPE cache to be consistent with the RDU. The DPE cache comprises the instruction cache, with instructions for devices, and the file cache, with files required for devices. Under normal conditions, the RDU generates the events with instruction updates and sends them to all relevant DPEs to keep them up to date. Synchronization is needed if the DPE is missing some events due to connection loss. Such loss could be due to a network issue, the DPE server going down for administrative purposes, or a failure. Synchronization also covers the special case when the RDU database is restored from backup. In this case, the DPE cache database must be returned to an older state to be consistent with the RDU. Note The RDU and DPE synchronization process is automatic and requires no administrative intervention. Throughout the synchronization process, the DPE is still fully capable of performing provisioning and management operations on the CPE. The DPE triggers the synchronization process every time it establishes a connection with the RDU. When the DPE first starts up, it establishes the connection to the RDU and registers with the RDU to receive updates of instruction changes. The DPE and RDU then monitor the connection by using heartbeat message exchanges. When the DPE determines that it had lost its connection to the RDU, it automatically attempts to re-establish it. It continues attempting to do this with a backoff-retry interval until it is successful. The RDU also detects the lost connection and stops sending events to this DPE. Since the DPE may miss the update events from the RDU when the connection is down, the DPE performs synchronization every time it establishes a connection with the RDU. During the process of connection establishment and registration with the RDU, the DPE is in the Registering state. Note To manually trigger the synchronization process for testing purpose, you can use the DPE CLI command dpe reload or break the connection by disconnecting and reconnecting the Ethernet cable. The DPE requests a list of all the instructions it should have from the RDU. This list contains the identifiers for instructions and revision numbers, but not the actual instruction content. By using this list, the DPE determines which instructions in its store are inconsistent (wrong revision number), which ones are missing, and which ones to delete. Throughout the process of obtaining the synchronization list and comparing it with its store, the DPE is in the Synchronizing state. As soon as the DPE finishes determining what to obtain from the RDU, it starts obtaining the instructions from the RDU. The DPE only obtains missing or out-of-date instructions. During this process, the DPE is in the Populating state. The DPE populates at a fixed rate to ensure that the RDU is not overloaded with its requests. If multiple DPEs in the provisioning group are populating, the population time may be decreased as the requested instructions are sent to all DPEs in the provisioning group. After the DPE finishes populating, it is in the Ready state and fully synchronized with the RDU. You can view the DPE state from the administrator user interface (see Viewing Device Provisioning Engines, page 16-22) or from the DPE CLI (by using the show dpe command).